and alone in her own room, she could cry out herlone cry without any one interfering with unwelcome comforting. Then,pale-faced and red-eyed, she got up, the sobs still coming in littlegasps. She looked in the glass as she pushed the black hair back fromher blue-veined forehead. With one of those strange revelations ofreality that come to people in life when in solitude they look attheir own reflection in a mirror--she thought--spoke. "It is toolate--too late--for me to be the mother of a boy-child."Then she went and set her alarm-clock to a quarter to seven in themorning.XVIITHE HOU-MEN OF THE DINGY CITYHow they call with different voices, these cities of men--from theMaxim-gun-like rattle of New York, with its chorus of strenuoussteamers calling from the water, on over the gamut of differentcapitals to Tokio, where the city voice is the tinkling of stiltedwooden shoes; not "Twinkle, twinkle, little star," but "Tinkle,tinkle, little feet," go the small wooden shoes on the wide firmamentof pavement.Most strident are the American cities; the most sweet-sounding arethose of Japan, except in those few streets raided by tram-cars.What is the voice of London? Is it not the plod, plod, dumping plod ofthe horses' hoofs and the jangling rattle of harness and bells, whichlast we hardly hear, so close is the sound to our ears, like things wecannot see because they are so close to our eyes? As it is a murmurousand noisy city in comparison with those of Japan, so it is peacefuland quiet in comparison with Chicago or New York. A friend of minefrom that City of Unrest says that the sound of the London streets hasa soothing, lulling effect on him, and makes him sleepy, like thesound of falling water.As I went up to Euston to-day to meet an Oriental visitor, I fell tospeculating how the city might look to him. A very cultured,intellectual fellow he is, who looks into the backs of the eyes ofthings. A Chinaman born, he had been through college in America, andknew American cities; he had also been studying in Paris, but this washis first visit to London. A wet, drizzling day was not the mostpropitious for his first impressions. Slopping along in a cab throughthe muddy streets, as I went under the portico of Euston Station Iwas forcefully reminded of one of the big gates of Pekin. There is asuggestion of the same massiveness; but the massiveness is onlymake-face, like the painted cannon on a Chinese city gate. It was animposing portico to a shamble of sheds.The railway terminus is the real gate of the modern city.Yet what absurdly incongruous things these London city gates are--asalad jumble of architecture and machinery with a mayonnaise oftrain-oil and soot!As I waited for my friend long trains came rumbling in under a canopyof smoke that hung about the grim iron rafters of this labyrinth.Fifteen minutes ago these trains had been spinning along through thegreen fields and across the shady lanes of what looked like "MerrieEngland," although now shaved down and trimmed to intenserespectability of cultivation. The heavens darkened and the airthickened as they came close to their journey's end, until they slowdown as if gropingly finding their way into the cavernous gateway ofthe great dingy city.What a strange conglomeration of people was waiting on each platform!There was a train leaving to catch the steamer for New York, there wasa line of people waiting to take tickets for a close-by station, therewas a line of soldiers waiting to be entrained; an American girl wasstanding on an automatic machine, and getting the railway porter totranslate from stones into pounds how much she weighed after her visitto Europe. A couple of Oriental servants seemed to have lostthemselves in the labyrinthine station, and were wandering round withOriental indifference. Porters, with hands and faces and uniformstoned down to the universal greyness of things, trundled theirhand-lorries to the monotonous calling of "B' your leave, b' yourleave"; and variegated specimens of humanity were looking around aftertheir luggage as one might imagine disembodied souls looking fortheir bodies in the Valley of Jehoshaphat on the Last Day. There werenot a few touches of cosmopolitanism suggestive of that gathering.My Oriental alighted from the train. As his Japanese servant was quitecapable of looking after his luggage and bringing it to his hotel, hismaster was left free to come right on with me and exercise hisindustrious curiosity--a curiosity that seemed never to be surprisedat anything he saw, but took everything as a matter of course. He wasa man of the world in his own estimation. Nevertheless, what animportant part of it he had not yet seen! Was it not a great epoch inhis life, this arrival of his in London?"This is our North Gate.""Ah, yes, Hou-Men," he said. "A very dark day, is it not?"We drove away in a cab under that sepulchral prison-like portico; wehad the glass down, it was raining so hard, and even he, whoseWesternisation was principally confined to New York, noticed theabsurdly asphyxiating arrangement of the London cab, whichhermetically seals its frame-bound occupants. The New Yorkers gottheir idea of the cab from us, but they have improved upon the windowby having it slanting outwards, so that, while protecting people fromthe rain, it admits air. For Londoners there is no alternative betweenspatteration and suffocation. In the New York cabs they can haveshelter and fresh air.It was not an inspiriting entrance through these first streets outsideEuston into London. The pavement of Melton Street was little betterthan that of Pekin, and from each side those dreary-looking smallhotels blinked out of their closed windows on the muddy street as ifwondering when a God-forsaken guest would come and occupy them. Andthen on through grimy Gower Street, looking like the empty bottom of adrained canal.It's not very inspiriting, this entrance into London from this NorthGate of ours.The people we passed there were not an interesting lot; they seemedall to belong to the two-storeyed houses. They were two-storeyedpeople, apparently keeping themselves moderately busy making amoderate amount of money, but hampered in the money-making by the mudand rain. We passed a little square carpeted with fresh grass, but thetrees on the other side were vague in mist, and the square and itsvegetation gave the suggestion of a tank with seaweeds in it. It was aday for studying men and women by their umbrellas and boots. Bootstell confessions for the most Low Church Protestants, and theumbrellas above them generally corroborate the sins of the boots.My Oriental friend was gazing out gravely.It was on a warm evening in a tea-garden that he had talked about hiscoming visit to London. I recollect his enthusing over the phrase  "Beneath the rule of men supremely great  The pen is mightier than the sword."A great motto for a great country, he then said it was. He professedan anxiety to see or meet some of the great English writers, our_literati_, as he called them. He liked the honesty of Englishmen inbusiness, and wanted to see them at work. He had helped to show mesomething of the life of the East--that part of the life mostdifficult to see, the life of the home--and in return I promised toshow him something of the life of the West, how and where people workand play, and pray--when they do so."Show me the house of one of your _literati_ if we pass one," he said."Is that one, there?" pointing to a gorgeous public-house, as wepassed a street corner.I saw the probable toppling of an ideal. We passed a couple ofquick-driving vans with a green placard of an evening paper, and Iexplained to him what a reading public we were, and how many editionsof the papers were quickly distributed during the afternoon, how theappetite for them had grown, like the craving for cheap cigarettes, asa relief from being obliged to inhale pure literary air. Thenewspaper habit and the cigarette habit are about on a par after all.[Illustration: Hospital Train Leaving Ladysmith For Pietermaritzburg.]We passed a church with closed doors, and he seemed surprised. Iexplained to him that the churches were open on Sunday, on which daythe more numerous temples of Bacchus were closed for a while.We reached the Strand, where he was greatly interested in a line of'buses. "Have you no street cars like in New York?" I submitted thatthese were kept on chiefly in order to have a supply of artilleryhorses in times of war."And have you no high buildings either?"The explanation of ancient lights and the overhead space wasted inLondon was too much to go into. His attention was diverted by anewspaper placard."Ah," said he, "another earthquake, is it not?""Collapse of Australia" stared from that vermilion placard. It beganto dawn on me that I had undertaken rather a large order in showingthis Oriental London life."And you have not shown me any of your _literati_ yet, or any of theirhouses."We were stopped in a block of omnibuses and cabs. A line ofsandwich-men were straggling along between vehicles and the curb. Oneof them stopped just by our cab; the rain was trickling down his nose;he looked as dismal as the weather. I could not resist the temptationof explaining that these were some of our _literati_ undergoingpunishment for some of the books or plays they had written. In Chinathe crime is set forth on a board hung on the neck of the criminal,called the _cangue_. It was only a very mild surprise he showed when Igave him the names of the line of sandwich-men. "How like the head ofyour Shakespeare!" he said of one.We were received at the hotel door by a brass-bound German in theundress uniform of a British admiral, who pays the hotel ?500 forreceiving tips. The rooms and corridors of the big building did notlook hospitably cheering. There were no fires in the grates, because,being June, the weather ought to have been warm; and the electriclights were not turned on, because, being daytime, there ought to havebeen light. He liked the smoking-room. "It is more like one of our bigtea-houses," he said. "Men do business here," pointing to a man with asheaf of papers talking earnestly to another beside him."Yes, that is a company promoter.""What is a company promoter?"The nearest definition that occurred was, "A man who sells somethinghe hasn't got to another who does not want to buy it.""I think London is a very interesting city," he said.XVIIITIREDIt was the fag end of the week in the Dingy City. A heavy weight ofdusty grey cloud lay oppressively inert, vaguely resting on the houseand tree tops, and underneath the cloud the air seemed stagnantlyconfined; in its lowest strata people had been breathing it allday--all the week, in fact--in and out of their lungs, so that it wasno wonder it felt tired and second-hand and used up.The air-thirst of their lungs had impelled those who were energetic togo away to where fresh air was to be breathed; but the very tired, andthose who lacked the energy for initial impetus, remained. The shopshad been closed, and the sunlight beat upon the shuttered eyelids oftheir windows on the Phryne side of Piccadilly. By that hour onSaturday afternoon Regent Street and Piccadilly were wearing almost aSunday appearance; Ranelagh and Hurlingham and the new club atRoehampton were crowded with smart people, and for hours past trainsfrom Paddington and Waterloo had been carrying thousands ofPanama-hatted, white-trousered men and summer-clad women riverwards.Though the shops were closed, some belated workers, in ones or twos orthrees, continued to dribble out from their doors.Going westward, along Piccadilly, a slight, dark-haired young girlstepped out from one. She was dressed in a thin white blouse thatshowed the outline of her arms and shoulders; she did not join thecrowd of others who were scaling the 'buses on the opposite side ofthe street, but turned to walk along the pavement parkwards. One fellto speculating as to why she walked. There was no spring or elasticityin her step as if she were doing so for the enjoyment of theexercise. Her feet, in boots with heels slightly rounded on theoutside, seemed to drag on that hot pavement. Possibly the 'bus farewas an item of consideration, even though she looked as if she hadspent all the morning on her feet in the shop. With thick, dark hairand good eyes, it would have taken very little aid in the way of dressto make her appear quite good-looking. As it was, men turned to lookat her as she passed, and one even came across the street, followed,and leered at her as he came abreast; she held on the even tenor ofher way, taking no notice of them. On, past the clubs, through thestreet vocal with the clanking stamp of the horses' hoofs--horses withshining flanks, who cocked their ears, and tossed their foam-drippingmouths as they passed the water-trough.Wooden stands here and there still disfigured some of the housefronts, and here and there a red pole, looking like a sugar-stick thata child had been sucking, stood as a memento of one of the mosthideous schemes of tawdry decoration that a civilised city has evershown.At Hyde Park corner she turned in towards the trees, following thestream-crowd direction of other pedestrians. She stopped near therailings, watching the procession of carriages going by. A girl, solike herself that they might almost have been sisters, passed in ahigh C-springed carriage. Looking from one to the other, the greatdifference made by little things was apparent. An application ofpowder-puff to the moist face of the girl at the railings would haveworked improvement; her cotton gloves hung down flaccidly from thebare hand which held up her skirt; perhaps some such thought as thatof the unfair distribution of C-spring carriages in this world crossedher mind, as she turned away and languidly continued her journeywestward under the trees.The seats were full of a heterogeneous collection of people, all moreor less under the drowsy influence of that stagnant air. Here andthere men were to be seen asleep in the chairs. Heads in tall hatsnodded, debarred the luxury enjoyed by those tramps who lay at fulllength under the trees on the grass behind. Between those luxuriatingon the grass, men lying in their shirt-sleeves, with heads a-restingin the laps of tired-faced women, whose children played or criednoisily around, and those who passed in the procession of carriages,was the intervening line of people from which all sorts of specimenscould be taken of the great mediocracy of England--those who could nomore afford a carriage than they could afford to lie on the grass. Themen's heads were branded with tall hats, remnants and summer saleswere suggested in the costumes of many of the women; an occasionalglimpse of shoes or hosiery explained why the graceful holding up ofthe skirts should be unstudied or unknown on this side of the Channel.And their gloves were of the same character as the hose.Curious specimens were to be found amongst that crowd. A man passedwhom I recollect seeing there as long as I can recollect going to thepark. Go round the world and back, and here one was certain to findhim. I know his income--it is just three hundred a year; except thathis whiskers had got a little whiter, he looked just the same asusual. The frock-coat he wore I have a sort of suspicion was the sameas I saw on him two years ago. I could swear to the umbrella--at leastthe handle, because possibly it had been recovered. The frock-coatwould obviously not see another season--not that it was showing anytinge of green about the shoulders, far from it. But perhaps it was afeeling of doubtfulness about the coat, which prompted a startlingdeparture in his costume. He had gone in for a pair of those yellow,chamois-coloured gloves which have made their appearance this season.He sauntered along leisurely, watching the people and the carriageswith apparently the same degree of interest as he had done for thepast ten years. I have heard that long ago he had a good tenor voice,and he used to speak authoritatively of great singers, when theyreally were great singers, not such as now.... I've never seen himtalking to anybody in the park, and I've never seen him smoke; yet hislips are seldom at rest. They have now got a motion something betweenthat of a nervous American with a cigar and a cow chewing the cud.This is the result of the movableness of his artificial teeth. Perhapsan extra visit to his dentist was an item of expenditure not to belightly incurred.What appeared to be corresponding feminine types were to be seen inprofusion. Women with incomes of one hundred, two hundred, threehundred a year, women who had passed the age either of matrimony ornaughtiness. What thousands of friendless and lonely people there mustbe in this great Dingy City! The class that lies on the grass is moresociable; they are free from a thousand tyrannies that oppress themediocracy.The face of a woman dressed in black, seated between two children,seemed familiar; not until she bowed did I recognise her as the wifeof an old friend who had been killed in Ladysmith. She used to be theprettiest officer's wife of his smart regiment; and from her accountit would have been better if she had not been so pretty, or theregiment so smart. She was now left with barely his pension forherself and the two children to live on.... Yet very bravely,apparently, she had faced the change!"Oh, I have tried various things for the last couple of years," shesaid, "but I am afraid there is nothing I can do. I even tried thestage for a time." She used to have a good voice. "But the managerswere horrid, and the pay was very small. Then I tried to give musiclessons; but what I got was hardly worth the distances I had to go; sonow I have to settle down to working out daily problems in domesticeconomy.""And all your friends?""Oh, they all were very nice and kind; but one cannot go about withoutbeing properly dressed, and when one keeps refusing invitations, onegradually becomes forgotten in time. I felt rather lonely just nowwhen I saw the people driving down to Hurlingham. Come along, chicks,we must be going now. You see," she said, "it is a long 'bus ride toour little flat."At the end of the long free seat, beyond where they had been sitting,was a strange, haggard-looking woman; a pair of cheap cotton glovesshowed her thin white wrists, and her black dress looked dusty anddraggled. She had a strange haunted look on her face, as if she hadleft some tragedy behind her at home. Every time a carriage withscarlet-liveried coachmen passed, she got up and stood on the seat.Perhaps she had journeyed there to see the Queen. She looked cross anddisappointed each time she stepped down again. On the other side acouple of girls were discussing those that passed in the carriages,and speculating as to who they might be. It was interesting to followtheir surmises."I think that's Lady X.," one of them said, as a lady, driving a pairof high-steppers, passed.But it wasn't. The little fellow sitting beside her glowed with theimportance of proprietorship; but, smart little chap that he was inThrogmorton Street, he had no idea how many understudies there were tohis part, and did not realise that there are syndicates outside thoseof the City."What an awfully common-looking woman!" the other said, as an old ladypassed in her carriage behind a sleepy pair of horses, sleepilydriven, the fat pug dog at her feet suffering eclipse by thejelly-shaking arc of her redundant figure. She happened not to becommon by any means, but one of the brightest and most good-naturedmembers of one of the oldest and most distinguished families inEngland."My goodness, isn't that Lord Roberts?" said the other, as a pair ofchestnuts passed, with a rigid and angular lady in the carriagesitting beside a red-faced, white-moustached little man with his nosein the air.It was not Lord Roberts. He really looked much too important for"Bobs," although he was a military man in a sense, being colonel of aVolunteer regiment.And how nasally obviously numerous in the procession was theproportion of Jews, and the Jewesses whose plumpness seemed theretribution inflicted by prosperity.As the smart carriages passed and the high-stepping horses, which wereindeed the exception, for the majority ambled along half somnolentfrom careless coachmanship, one sought in vain for some idea of whatthey were doing it all for. They did not seem to enjoy it. If they didnot enjoy it, why did they do it? The expression that was common anduniversal to almost all was their seriousness. The Volunteer coloneltook himself seriously, as did the fair frailty behind thehigh-steppers, no less than the best ladies of the land who seemed tobe doing it as a traditional duty; but each and every one looked soserious.How was it that no one seemed to be laughing and enjoying himself outof all the crowd? The Avenue du Bois de Boulogne seemed to belong toanother planet. The listless languor of these girls did not at leastobviously claim Transatlantic cousinship; the gaiety of a Japanesestreet seemed so remote as to belong to a planet of another system;and the seriousness seemed reflected in the faces of the greatmediocracy sauntering along inside the railings or solemnly seated inthe chairs with their faces turned carriagewards.Here it did not seem the Dingy City; there was colour enough--brightsplashes of colour, both colour in movement and colour from therhododendron bushes, backgrounded with the fresh grass, that an artistwas making a picture of over the way; it was not the Dingy City here.At least this was an oasis in it. But here, in this oasis, playgroundor pleasure-ground, the People of the Serious City was what was writon their faces.Five hours later the park was almost deserted, and the gleam of whiteshirt-front or tulle-foam was caught as a closed carriage passed.The old bachelor was asleep in his chair at an open window lookingacross the narrow street at the familiar sooty face of the houseopposite."Good-night, Tom; I do hope it will be fine for to-morrow," theblack-haired girl was saying at her door, holding in her hand the newhat she had been trimming.The Volunteer colonel was discussing Buller and port across theglittering dinner-field.The little fair-haired boy had climbed softly out of his cot, and,going over to his mother's bed, whispered coaxingly, "Will 'oo letme sleep with 'oo, mummy?" and when he had nestled his head on herarm, "Now tell me the story how daddy died," and was asleep before thefamiliar story was finished.[Illustration: Boer Prisoners.]XIXTHE CITY OF DUMB DISTANCESI am sure there must be many to whom the idea occurs at such times ofthe year as this, at the end of the season, when people are scatteringout of London, that friends are leaving whom we would like to have hadthe time to have seen before they went. How often, looking over thepages of one's address book, one says, "I wonder how it is I have notseen So-and-so for an age," and one feels that people we used to enjoymeeting, if they do not happen to move in the same orbit ofmetropolitan existence, are vanishing from our ken. They are beinglost in the Limbo of long distances. An hour of Underground in veryhot weather may give the remoteness of Styx-ferryage.It would be nice even to be able to speak to one's friends who are notconveniently visitable. In other cities this is possible, but nothere. The telephone service of an American town or a Norwegian villageis a thing of which London has never got even sufficient sample-tasteto realise what she is deprived of, or what she ought very reasonablyto demand. There is no reason why London should remain telephonicallydeaf and dumb. There is nothing which strikes the visitor moreforcibly, however, than the long-suffering patience of the Londoner.The exasperatingly slow, inefficient apology for a telephone servicethat would not be tolerated anywhere else is good enough for London.It is no excuse to plead in apology the great size of the City, whenthere is the example of New York before one, where there are moretelephones, where they are cheaper, and where the average time to getinto communication with another subscriber appears to be a third or afourth of the time taken in London. It is only when one has had actualexperience of a thoroughly telephoned town that one appreciates theconvenience of it. Look what it means for saving time in shopping,doing business, making appointments, and speaking to one's friends. "Igot a telephone put right into my room the day I arrived," said anAmerican friend, "but the people I want to speak to most often don'tseem to use them, and it is so darned slow getting on to those that dothat now I am keeping a cab by the day; it is quicker in the end, andmakes me swear less."It will only be a matter of time, and that not so very far off, whenwireless telegraphy will replace the telephone. The principle ofsending messages in a multiplicity of keys, so that a message sentwill only be received on the instrument keyed for it, has beenestablished, and only requires practical working out. Until that timeLondon will probably have to remain as deaf and dumb as it is.As regards getting from one part to another, it is not a cheerfulthing to contemplate that what should be the most agreeable way oftraversing London--I mean the pathway of the river--should just now beclosed, and while Mr. Yerkes looks out on it from his offices in theHotel Cecil, Londoners have to look to him to see if he or PierpontMorgan will not open it to them again. What a pleasant alternativefrom the asphyxiating Underground or the tortoise-moving omnibus wouldnot a fast, comfortably fitted line of river steamers be! It seemsinconceivable that, with such a waterway and such primitive andinadequate alternative means of travel, the people should stand itsbeing closed. What a great, stimulating, suggestive pathway it isthrough the Dingy City! Coming from a dance early the other morning Iwalked along the Embankment, to see a carpet of blue and silver beinglaid along the river as if by the angels of the dawn; and at eveningin ever-varying schemes of sometimes gorgeous colour a richer carpetis laid sunsetwards, while the smoke and dust exhalation of the Cityis glorified to an incense offering by the stained rose window to thewest. At such times the Dingy City looks great, robed in vagueorgan-tones of colour. But you must no longer walk on that carpet,even though the angels have laid it for you; you must no longer seeyour city from that pathway; you must burrow homewards from your workin a sewer-pipe of stink, and deeper rabbit-warrens of burrowing arebeing prepared for you, and you have no Declaration of Independencethat secures to you the undeniable right to breathe fresh air.Long-suffering, patient Londoner! To whom does the City belong, andthe river? If you reward with honours the men who make beer or whiskyfor you, or supply you with cheap tea, or signalise themselves bysuccessfully struggling against disease, there ought to be theinducement of honours and reward waiting for the man or men that wouldhelp the millions in their daily struggle with this plague of longdistances. Is there no knight to champion the cause of the toilers ofLondon and in earnest tackle this dragon problem of distances? Thatis left to enterprising Americans who come over from pure philanthropy(?) to help you. Three years of his life are spent by theaverage-lived Londoner in the Underground, who has to take a dailyhalf-hour's journey in it to get to his business. A man with an officein the neighbourhood of the Stock Exchange and a dwelling-house inSouth Kensington will spend about four or five years of his life goingto and fro. To an extent it is a necessary evil. We cannot transportourselves by telegraph, but there are things that the people of thelargest city in the world might reasonably expect. They might expectto have as good facilities for getting about as the people of the mostprogressive cities in the world; they might expect to have the powerto speak when they will with the same quickness, cheapness, andfacility as people of other cities. But there is a dull feeling ofresigned apathy about them. They will not insist on making any one"get a move on" them to get these things done; will no more think ofhustling themselves than a cab-horse in a growler hired by the hour.If London may be considered the head--the brain of the Empire--theblood-circulation of that brain is surely of vital importance. Whenkeen competitors seize every time-saving, labour-saving weapon as itis offered to help them in the conquest of trade, can we afford to dowithout them? The business methods of twenty years ago will not do forto-day, still less will they do for twenty years to come. The methodswhich our competitors are practising are what will tell, and theycannot be imitated and acquired in a hurry when their importance willbecome suddenly alarmingly apparent. I think the position is far moreserious than the stay-at-home Englishman realises. Perhaps from thesepassing years the future historian will get material for the openingchapters of his work on "British Trade: its Decline and Fall."XXTHE LAND OF THE EVENING CALMIt is difficult to think this morning that it was only last evening Ileft London. Lying on one's back on a soft carpet of pine spirules onthe slope of the hill, the deep green of the water in the harbourshows through the pine branches. There is a plumage of bracken aroundwonderful green feathers, that are rising on their slender stems fromthe thick brown carpet of nature's plush, which hushes one's footstepsthrough the wood and makes them noiseless, except when one treads on acrisp tory top. There is a delightful hush under this cool roofpillared by the brown tree-trunks, but it is not silence. There is asoft hum that comes ceaselessly to one's ear, sometimes anear,sometimes afar, from one knows not where, from bees, perhaps, busyamongst the hurts or honeysuckle just below. Up above a wood-pigeonkeeps cooing that ceaseless question, or is it a question, or theplaint call of his pigeon heart for love? or has he lost his love, andcroons a mourning for her? Distinct from and louder than the murmur ofthe bees is a rustling of the water from below where the outgoing tidefrom the river meets the water of the harbour; and mingled with that,one can just faintly catch the hushed sound of an occasional wave onthe rocks. It is a holiday with the breakers, and the sea moves itsfringe as gently as if fanning itself to sleep. The river winds aroundbelow, and down to its edge the hills are tree-covered--not therealtogether with pines, but with rounded luxurious clumps of darktrees, recalling Dor?'s idea of a forest--they are exactly Dor?'strees. It does not look from here as if the river went up farther, butaround that bend is the deep green water called Drake's Pool. It wasthere that Admiral Drake, outnumbered and chased along the Irish coastby the Spanish fleet, hid from them. The Spaniards came into theharbour and searched around, but never thought there was an openingthrough the trees. And there Drake waited with his high-pooped shipsuntil they went away. Close to the trees that grow around the steepmargin of the pool and always darken the green water, even in daytime,fishermen who go there at night to fish for conger tell that when themoon has been clouded at midnight they have seen the shapes ofqueer-looking ships, and on their high sterns the forms of men inoutlandish costumes, sitting around drinking.Right on the summit of this hill which commands the harbour is theGiant's Grave; and _? propos_ of commanding the harbour, Napoleon I.knew of it, and had a plan for the invasion of Ireland, in which wasincluded the idea of occupying this hill, from which he could commandfrom the rear the forts at the harbour's mouth. He would have plantedhis guns on the Giant's Grave. We know little of the history of thatgiant, except that he carried off the wife of another giant who livedon the Great Island opposite, and held her here in his fastness amidthe pine trees against all efforts to wrest her from him. A huge rockthat he hurled back in one of these fights is still to be seen on theshore of Spike Island.A twittering flutter of white and grey below me a few yards away. Itis a rabbit--and now another. Their ears are cocked, but they do notappear to notice me in the least. They hop about quite noiselessly onthe brown carpet. The crowing of a cock in the distance seems almostmusical, and there is some insect in the tree above me that appears tobe trying to give an imitation of a telegraph instrument. I wonderwhat these rabbits are saying to each other. They seem very alert andinterested. Now a third appears on the scene. Two of them arebeginning to play, at least I thought so at first--and I feel in thispeaceful wood I should have left it at that, but having to recollectthe heading of these chapters I have to record the fact that they arefighting. I never saw rabbits fight before, but they are fighting likemad. I now see, in fact, the origin of the expression making "the furfly." The third is just skipping around watching intently with biground eyes and its ears erect--perhaps the third is timekeeper, orperhaps it is the story of the giants over again. The new-comer wasgetting the best of it. I am sorry now that I could not resist thetemptation of taking a shot at them with my fountain pen. They fledinstantly. Perhaps the little rabbit lady is glad--she may be lickingthe wounds of her Lancelot in their burrow a few yards away while heis telling her that he would have beaten the other fellow all right inthe end if that darned fool hadn't thrown his fountain pen, while sheagrees, as she works her little rabbit tongue soothingly, althoughprivately she has her "doots."How interesting it would be to be able to study the lives of all theselittle people in this wood! There are terrible weasels here who wage asanguinary warfare against the rabbits--a guerilla war that no warcorrespondent I know of has yet got his pass for. The seagulls arebeginning to talk now in a New York pitch of voice, and one can get anoccasional gleam of their wings through the blue-green pine branches.I think it is their dinner-time when the tide goes out and spreads atable-strip of slob for them on the shore.How thankful we ought to be to have such dear stupid neighbours as theEnglish, who don't come in hordes of tourists to desecrate thisdelightful land! Those who love it with intimacy of knowledge--thiswild coast with its rock fingers stretching into the Atlantic andharbours around which the trees nestle for shelter from the winterstorms--the ruined castles with empty "magic casements, opening on thefoam of perilous seas, in fairy lands forlorn"--own it still fortheir pleasure, moss-grown with history as vivid as the lichens on itsrocks or ruins.Perhaps from a sense of justice, our neighbours think the invasion ofCromwell's army was enough, and that we ought to be spared fromsomething worse, so that the hordes rush off perspiring over theContinent and elsewhere, and just a few nice people come and comeagain to the South of Ireland, and say they like that cordial greetingthat always is waiting for the Englishman personally, who only in theabstract is disliked. Then the Irish railways and hotel-keepers act ina very nice and gentlemanly fashion; the former do not force on thenotice of the tourist hordes that a train leaves Euston or Paddingtonevery evening which would land them here at 10.30 in the morning for afew shillings. The latter are quite content with the knowledge theyhave themselves that they possess now as comfortable andwell-fitted-up hotels as any in the world.A little old Irish lady was reduced to selling apples in the street."Fresh apples, fresh apples!" she would call out; then, to herself, "Ihope no one will hear me."I do not know, indeed, whether we have to thank most our kindneighbours or the railway and hotel people for the blessing we enjoyin this Land of the Evening Calm that still keeps  "A bower quiet for us, and a sleep  Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing."One fills one's lungs with the delicious air, aromatic with pineperfume, to send it out in a sigh of infinite content.From across the water comes a sound of music; it is some one playing acornet. The air the unseen musician is playing sounds familiar. He isonly practising--learning---- Ye gods! Is there no place where one canget away from that air? But yet, does not it speak volumes for theremoteness of this harbourage of repose to realise that the unseenmusician is only now _learning_ "The Honeysuckle and the Bee"?[Illustration: Japs Entering Pekin.]XXIWITH SOME TOILERS OF THE SEA"Stop makin' a noise wid your face, man, and cook the spuds; 'tis timefor dinner." Thus Tim to Mike, who had been expounding a theory of hison the wayward habits of mackerel. Tim occasionally comes out withquaint phrases worthy a wider audience. "Mr. Speaker, the right hon.member who has just been making a noise with his face on thisamendment"--how would that sound?There are three men in the boat, not including the writer--Tim, Mike,and Dennis--engaged in lobster-fishing. They have lived in her now sixweeks from the time they left Baltimore; "doin' purty well, thankGod," they admit. The fishing and the weather and the price all "purtyfair." They get ten shillings a dozen for the lobsters, small orlarge, from the cutters that sail along the coast to collect them andtake them to England, and they consider a couple of dozen lobsters avery good day's fishing. They don't get as good a price in the middleof the summer, however. They are going to stop the lobstering just nowfor the autumn mackerel-fishing, which they hope will be as good asthe mackerel-fishing of last spring, which was the best for the pastfour years. The open boat, which they own in partnership, is astrongly built one about twenty-two feet long, with a lug and foresailof brown canvas and great flat stones for ballast. The whole outfit,including the lobster-pots, cost them twenty-five pounds. The potshave been set and baited with gurnet; during the two hours' intervalwe are anchored. A curious thing about the craft is the galley. On aspar which stretches from the bow to about four feet up the mast isstretched a piece of brown canvas just forward of the mast, on a flatstone some lumps of turf are burning, and under this canvas is spreadthe straw on which my friends sleep. Mike is now washing a prodigiousquantity of potatoes in a large iron pot, "a grate crop of pratiesthis year, but the salt water plays the divil with the keeping avthem, like that," and he holds up one with a red mark on it in hisgigantic paw. I kept wondering if they were really going to eat allthese potatoes at one meal. They did, however, washed down with milkfrom a big tin jug which they passed around. They make their own breador griddle-cake, but that was to be taken with their tea for breakfastor supper. Tim is a teetotaler, and his two partners have a limit ofthree pints (of porter) when they are ashore. They always go ashore onSundays, when two of them go to Mass, while the other minds the boatand the lobsters. Three great, simple, almost child-like giants theyare, yet not without a certain natural courtesy--a core of genuinepoliteness within a rough rind.It was great to see how they made that heavy boat move with theirlong oars, coming out of the harbour this morning; and yet they hardlyever eat any meat. Potatoes and milk are their chief diet; fishsometimes--"an' thin we has to sample the lobsters sometimes; itwouldn't do not to sample what we are daling in." They cooked one inhonour of their visitor, who never tasted a better. Then they lit thepipe, which they smoked in turn, and soon it was time to pick up thepots. Three lobsters and a crawfish were the haul. What magnificentcolour in the strong yet delicate armour of their shells! Deep blueshaded into brown, mottled in yellow spots, with deep red at thejoints. They were put into the big basket, which already containedover three dozen. What a terrible time the poor brutes must havethere! Two or three weeks in this boat, probably the same time in thetank of the cutter, and a week or two more in another ashore beforethey are eaten. I asked if they ever gave them any food, but foundthey never did. "One av them dies off an' on, and thin the others atehim, an' they are always atin' the small claws off each other." Talkof the lobster blushing because it saw the salad dressing; but oughtit not to make a member of the S.P.C.A. blush to eat lobstermayonnaise? We set the brown sails to lay the pots again further alongthe coast. It is a glorious day, the wavelets dancing on the surfaceof the long Atlantic swell that heaves ponderously; for, as Timremarked, "the adjacent parish wesht is Ameriky." A glorioustranslucent green under the shadow of the leaning sails, and beyond,under our lee, the line of breakers on the rocks, tapestried in therich brown of autumnal seaweed, and above them, in more brokenbillows, fields that make the island called "Emerald."While waiting after laying the pots again, the wind kept freshening,and heavier clouds in big battalions kept hurrying up from windward.The trio seem unanimous that we are in for a bit of a blow. Tim says'tis going to be a nasty night, and we must go in somewhere, althoughnight is the best time for their fishing. Only one jack-lobster out ofall the pots this time. It was now blowing hard and beginning to rain,so, with one reef in, we started again. It was a ripping breeze; Iknew of old how quickly the wind can rise along that coast. The lasttime I was in Baltimore--picturesque old place, with its ruined abbeyand the memory of the sacking of it by Moorish pirates, and thecarrying-off of the women from only the eighteenth century back--waswhen I sailed round in a half-decked 16-footer, designed by Watson.She was a great little boat, with a ton of lead on her keel. As I wasnearing the harbour just such a breeze sprang up, and, beingsingle-handed, I could not take in a reef, so had to carry on; rightoutside the harbour my foresail carried away, but I got in all rightunder the mainsail, and anchored alongside the BaronessBurdett-Coutts's yacht that was there at the time. I asked Tim aboutthe money she had lent to the men there for buying fishing-boats."Ah, thin, she's a good woman, God bless her; there's many rich orwell-to-do men in Baltimore to-day through the means of her, an' iverypenny paid back--divil a penny av a bad debt."[Illustration: Relief Of Pekin.]The smaller the boat the greater the delight of sailing; you getcloser to things than in big boats. It is part of yourself, half inthe sea and half in the air, and with the sea and breezes you play orfight. White sails standing patiently upright, waiting, and adown fromover the hills comes along the breath of the wind, breathing acrossthe mirror; gently, ripplingly, comes the wind to play, and would tryto pass, but you catch it in your white wings--catch it and hold it,leaning over to its fleeing passage, and press the tremblingtiller-pulse, now throbbing with life, and luff as the boat dartsforward in joy of possession of the wind, but she passes, gently,gently up again with the tiller till she leaves the sails with thelingerage of a caress.But more fun is the fight and tussle in that wonderful surfacefighting-line between sea and wind, which laugh as they fight, blowingand buffeting, with you between and the little boat-part of you, nowintensely alive and glad like you to be alive, to sing back to thewind any old song as she passes her fingers through your hair.One unique sensation of the almost uncanny mingling of the twoelements I can never forget, when once, at daybreak, I went down intothe Cave of the Winds under Niagara Falls; on along the slippery path,the spray streaming down the oilskins; within a few feet thatshimmering, glistening wall of falling water, the sense of hearinggone in intoxication, of most musically thunderous noise. One seemedbreathing water, so finely spray-saturated was the air. One seemed tohave passed the portals into a strange, eerie, watery world.Every moment the wind came up, piping louder and louder, scuddingacross the now darkening water. The entrance to Oyster Haven was onlyhalf a mile on. It was too far to go to Kinsale. The Old Head wasinvisible in blue-grey mist.How things find voice in music! I recollect in the climax of the fightat Elandslaagte, when the uproar of various sounds was simplyterrific, from the shrill treble of the whimpering bullets to thetrumpet-like whoop of the shells as they arched overhead, to alightwith a drum-boom and burst with a cymbal crash; the whole orchestra ofbattle was playing--it seemed that everyone must recognise theair--"The Ride of the Valkyrie;" and now the driving rain and the saltspindrift, the flapping of the leech of our brown sail, every note ofaccompaniment is being given to that great air that runs throughBeethoven's Waldstein Sonata, which the wind is singing louder andlouder. Tim sits up well to windward, the tiller quivering in hishand, the rain beating on one side of his face, his beard blowing outfrom the other. Tim doesn't think what a good model for a Viking hemakes just now. The real actual Viking must have been very littledifferent in appearance from Tim.We were not long in making that last half-mile, and dropped anchorclose inshore. At once on doing so the many advantages of the canvascabin were apparent. The boat, riding head to wind, made the bow underthe canvas quite snug. Mike blew the bellows on the smouldering sodsof turf which had never quite gone out; it is true the eddying smokeresulting therefrom was smarting to the eyes, but the resulting hottea was compensation. It was useless for me to try to explain that itwould be a real pleasure for me to sleep outside in my waterproof--thatit would make me dream of being outside Santiago in the trenches, oron the veldt. It was only a matter of which of the three--who allwanted to--should give up his berth on the straw. Dennis succeededeventually. It was a bad night. It was snug and "comfy" inside on thestraw as the boat cradled on the broken aftermath of swell. The rainplayed in sheets of notes on the flapping canvas, and from its edgewraiths of smoke shuddered off into the darkness; and, dropping off tosleep, I listened to the Storm moaning the air of the Waldstein to theear of Beethoven.THE ENDPRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES.***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IMPRESSIONS OF A WAR CORRESPONDENT********** This file should be named 21661-8.txt or 21661-8.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/1/6/6/21661Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://www.gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://www.gutenberg.org/about/contactFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit:http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.                    Aunt Jane's Nieces on the RanchThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almostno restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use itunder the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with thiseBook or online at http://www.gutenberg.org/license.Title: Aunt Jane's Nieces on the RanchAuthor: Edith Van DyneRelease Date: April 12, 2011 [EBook #35859]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: US-ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AUNT JANE'S NIECES ON THERANCH ***Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team athttp://www.pgdp.net.                           AUNT JANE'S NIECES                              ON THE RANCH                                   BY                             EDITH VAN DYNE                  AUTHOR OF AUNT JANE'S NIECES SERIES                   THE FLYING GIRL SERIES, ETC., ETC.                          The Reilly & Lee Co.                                Chicago                           _Copyright_, 1913                                  _BY_                       _The Reilly & Britton Co._                    AUNT JANE'S NIECES ON THE RANCHCONTENTS  - CHAPTER I--UNCLE JOHN DECIDES  - CHAPTER II--EL CAJON RANCH  - CHAPTER III--THAT BLESSED BABY!  - CHAPTER IV--LITTLE JANE'S TWO NURSES  - CHAPTER V--INEZ THREATENS  - CHAPTER VI--A DINNER WITH THE NEIGHBORS  - CHAPTER VII--GONE!  - CHAPTER VIII--VERY MYSTERIOUS  - CHAPTER IX--A FRUITLESS SEARCH  - CHAPTER X--CONJECTURES AND ABSURDITIES  - CHAPTER XI--THE MAJOR ENCOUNTERS THE GHOST  - CHAPTER XII--ANOTHER DISAPPEARANCE  - CHAPTER XIII--THE WAY IT HAPPENED  - CHAPTER XIV--PRISONERS OF THE WALL  - CHAPTER XV--MILDRED CONFIDES IN INEZ  - CHAPTER XVI--AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL  - CHAPTER XVII--THE PRODIGAL SON  - CHAPTER XVIII--LACES AND GOLD  - CHAPTER XIX--INEZ AND MIGUEL  - CHAPTER XX--MR. RUNYON'S DISCOVERY  - CHAPTER XXI--A FORTUNE IN TATTERS  - CHAPTER XXII--FAITHFUL AND TRUE                    Aunt Jane's Nieces on the RanchCHAPTER I--UNCLE JOHN DECIDES"And now," said Major Doyle, rubbing his hands together as he halfreclined in his big chair in a corner of the sitting room, "now we shallenjoy a nice cosy winter in dear New York.""Cosy?" said his young daughter, Miss Patricia Doyle, raising her headfrom her sewing to cast a glance through the window at the whirlingsnowflakes."Ab-so-lute-ly cosy, Patsy, my dear," responded the major. "Here we arein our own steam-heated flat--seven rooms and a bath, not counting theclosets--hot water any time you turn the faucet; a telephone call bringsthe butcher, the baker, the candlestick-maker; latest editions of thepapers chucked into the passage! What more do you want?""Tcha!"This scornful ejaculation came from a little bald-headed man seated inthe opposite corner, who had been calmly smoking his pipe and dreamilyeyeing the flickering gas-log in the grate. The major gave a start andturned to stare fixedly at the little man. Patsy, scenting mischief,indulged in a little laugh as she threaded her needle."Sir! what am I to understand from that brutal interruption?" demandedMajor Doyle sternly."You're talking nonsense," was the reply, uttered in a tone of cheeryindifference. "New York in winter is a nightmare. Blizzards, thaws,hurricanes, ice, la grippe, shivers--grouches.""Drumsticks!" cried the major indignantly. "It's the finest climate inthe world--bar none. We've the finest restaurants, the best theatres,the biggest stores and--and the stock exchange. And then, there'sBroadway! What more can mortal desire, John Merrick?"The little man laughed, but filled his pipe without reply."Uncle John is getting uneasy," observed Patsy. "I've noticed it forsome time. This is the first snowstorm that has caught him in New Yorkfor several years.""The blizzard came unusually early," said Mr. Merrick apologetically."It took me by surprise. But I imagine there will be a few days more ofdecent weather before winter finally sets in. By that time--""Well, what then?" asked the major in defiant accents, as hisbrother-in-law hesitated."By that time we shall be out of it, of course," was the quiet reply.Patsy looked at her uncle reflectively, while the major grunted andshifted uneasily in his chair. Father and daughter were alike devoted toJohn Merrick, whose generosity and kindliness had rescued them frompoverty and thrust upon them all the comforts they now enjoyed. Eventhis pretty flat building in Willing Square, close to the fashionableNew York residence district, belonged in fee to Miss Doyle, it havingbeen a gift from her wealthy uncle. And Uncle John made his home withthem, quite content in a seven-room-flat when his millions might havepurchased the handsomest establishment in the metropolis. Down in WallStreet and throughout the financial districts the name of the great JohnMerrick was mentioned with awe; here in Willing Square he smoked a pipein his corner of the modest sitting room and cheerfully argued with hisirascible brother-in-law, Major Doyle, whose business it was to lookafter Mr. Merrick's investments and so allow the democratic littlemillionaire the opportunity to come and go as he pleased.The major's greatest objection to Uncle John's frequent absences fromNew York--especially during the winter months--was due to the fact thathis beloved Patsy, whom he worshiped with a species of idolatry, usuallyaccompanied her uncle. It was quite natural for the major to resentbeing left alone, and equally natural for Patsy to enjoy these travelexperiences, which in Uncle John's company were always delightful.Patsy Doyle was an unprepossessing little thing, at first sight. She wasshort of stature and a bit plump; freckled and red-haired; neat andwholesome in appearance but lacking "style" in either form or apparel.But to her friends Patricia was beautiful. Her big blue eyes,mischievous and laughing, won hearts without effort, and the girl was sogenuine--so natural and unaffected--that she attracted old and youngalike and boasted a host of admiring friends.This girl was Uncle John's favorite niece, but not the only one. Beth DeGraf, a year younger than her cousin Patsy, was a ward of Mr. Merrickand lived with the others in the little flat at Willing Square. Beth wasnot an orphan, but her father and mother, residents of an Ohio town, hadtreated the girl so selfishly and inconsiderately that she had passed avery unhappy life until Uncle John took her under his wing and removedBeth from her depressing environment. This niece was as beautiful inform and feature as Patsy Doyle was plain, but she did not possessPatsy's cheerful and uniform temperament and was by nature reserved anddiffident in the presence of strangers.Yet Beth had many good qualities, among them a heart-felt sympathy foryoung girls who were not so fortunate as herself. On this disagreeablewinter's day she had set out to visit a settlement school where she hadlong since proved herself the good angel of a score of struggling girls.The blizzard had developed since she left home, but no one worried abouther, for Beth was very resourceful.There was another niece, likewise dear to John Merrick's heart, who hadbeen Louise Merrick before she married a youth named Arthur Weldon, sometwo years before this story begins. A few months ago Arthur had takenhis young wife to California, where he had purchased a fruit ranch, andthere a baby was born to them which they named "Jane Merrick Weldon"--arather big name for what was admitted to be a very small person.This baby, now five months old and reported to be thriving, had beenfrom its birth of tremendous interest to every inhabitant of the WillingSquare flat. It had been discussed morning, noon and night by Uncle Johnand the girls, while even the grizzled major was not ashamed to admitthat "that Weldon infant" was an important addition to the family.Perhaps little Jane acquired an added interest by being so far away fromall her relatives, as well as from the fact that Louise wrote suchglowing accounts of the baby's beauty and witcheries that to believe atithe of what she asserted was to establish the child as an infantilemarvel.Now, Patsy Doyle knew in her heart that Uncle John was eager to seeLouise's baby, and long ago she had confided to Beth her belief that thewinter would find Mr. Merrick at Arthur Weldon's California ranch, withall his three nieces gathered around him and the infantile marvel in hisarms. The same suspicion had crept into Major Doyle's mind, and that iswhy he so promptly resented the suggestion that New York was not anideal winter resort. Somehow, the old major "felt in his bones" that hisbeloved Patsy would be whisked away to California, leaving her father toface the tedious winter without her; for he believed his business dutieswould not allow him to get away to accompany her.Yet so far Uncle John, in planning for the winter, had not mentionedCalifornia as even a remote possibility. It was understood he would gosomewhere, but up to the moment when he declared "we will be out of it,of course, when the bad weather sets in," he had kept his own counseland forborne to express a preference or a decision.But now the major, being aroused, decided to "have it out" with hiselusive brother-in-law."Where will ye go to find a better place?" he demanded."We're going to Bermuda," said Uncle John."For onions?" asked the major sarcastically."They have other things in Bermuda besides onions. A delightful climate,I'm told, is one of them."The major sniffed. He was surprised, it is true, and rather pleased,because Bermuda is so much nearer New York than is California; but itwas his custom to object."Patsy can't go," he declared, as if that settled the question for goodand all. "The sea voyage would kill her. I'm told by truthful personsthat the voyage to Bermuda is the most terrible experience known tomortals. Those who don't die on the way over positively refuse ever tocome back again, and so remain forever exiled from their homes andfamilies--until they have the good luck to die from continually eatingonions."Mr. Merrick smiled as he glanced at the major's severe countenance."It can't be as bad as that," said he. "I know a man who has taken hisfamily to Bermuda for five winters, in succession.""And brought 'em back alive each time?""Certainly. Otherwise, you will admit he couldn't take them again.""That family," asserted the major seriously, "must be made of cast-iron,with clockwork stomachs."Patsy gave one of her low, musical laughs."I think I would like Bermuda," she said. "Anyhow, whatever pleasesUncle John will please me, so long as we get away from New York.""Why, ye female traitor!" cried the major; and added, for Uncle John'sbenefit: "New York is admitted by men of discretion to be the modernGarden of Eden. It's the one desideratum of--"Here the door opened abruptly and Beth came in. Her cheeks were glowingred from contact with the wind and her dark tailor-suit glistened withtiny drops left by the melted snow. In her mittened hand she waved aletter."From Louise, Patsy!" she exclaimed, tossing it toward her cousin; "butdon't you dare read it till I've changed my things."Then she disappeared into an inner room and Patsy, disregarding theinjunction, caught up the epistle and tore open the envelope.Uncle John refilled his pipe and looked at Patsy's tense faceinquiringly. The major stiffened, but could not wholly repress hiscuriosity. After a moment he said:"All well, Patsy?""How's the baby?" asked Uncle John."Dear me!" cried Patsy, with a distressed face; "and no doctor nearerthan five miles!"Both men leaped from their chairs."Why don't they keep a doctor in the house?" roared the major."Suppose we send Dr. Lawson, right away!" suggested Uncle John.Patsy, still holding up the letter, turned her eyes upon themreproachfully."It's all over," she said with a sigh.The major dropped into a chair, limp and inert. Uncle John paled."The--the baby isn't--dead!" he gasped."No, indeed," returned Patsy, again reading. "But it had colic mostdreadfully, and Louise was in despair. But the nurse, a dark-skinnedMexican creature, gave it a dose of some horrid hot stuff--""Chile con carne, most likely!" ejaculated the major."Horrible!" cried Uncle John."And that cured the colic but almost burned poor little Jane's insidesout.""Insides out!""However, Louise says the dear baby is now quite well again," continuedthe girl."Perhaps so, when she wrote," commented the major, wiping his foreheadwith a handkerchief; "but that's a week ago, at least. A thousand thingsmight have happened to that child since then. Why was Arthur Weldon sucha fool as to settle in a desert place, far away from all civilization?He ought to be prosecuted for cruelty.""The baby's all right," said Patsy, soothingly. "If anything serioushappened, Louise would telegraph.""I doubt it," said the major, walking the floor. "I doubt if there'ssuch a thing as a telegraph in all that forsaken country."Uncle John frowned."You are getting imbecile, Major. They've a lot more comforts andconveniences on that ranch than we have here in New York.""Name 'em!" shouted the Major. "I challenge ye to mention one thing wehaven't right here in this flat.""Chickens!" said Beth, re-entering the room in time to hear thischallenge. "How's the baby, Patsy?""Growing like a weed, dear, and getting more lovely and cunning everysecond. Here--read the letter yourself."While Beth devoured the news from California Uncle John replied to themajor."At El Cajon Ranch," said he, "there's a fine big house where thesunshine peeps in and floods the rooms every day in the year. Hear thatblizzard howl outside, and think of the roses blooming this instant onthe trellis of Louise's window. Arthur has two automobiles and can getto town in twenty minutes. They've a long-distance telephone and I'vetalked with 'em over the line several times.""You have!" This in a surprised chorus."I have. Only last week I called Louise up.""An expensive amusement, John," said the major grimly."Yes; but I figured I could afford it. I own some telephone stock, youknow, so I may get part of that investment back. They have their owncows, and chickens--as Beth truly says--and any morning they can pickoranges and grapefruit from their own trees for breakfast.""I'd like to see that precious baby," remarked Beth, laying the letteron her lap to glance pleadingly at her uncle."Uncle John is going to take us to Bermuda," said Patsy in a seriousvoice.The little man flushed and sat down abruptly. The major, noting hisattitude, became disturbed."You've all made the California trip," said he. "It doesn't pay to seeany country twice.""But we haven't seen Arthur's ranch," Beth reminded him."Nor the baby," added Patsy, regarding the back of Uncle John's headsomewhat wistfully.The silence that followed was broken only by the major's low growls. Thepoor man already knew his fate."That chile-con-carne nurse ought to be discharged," mumbled Uncle John,half audibly. "Mexicans are stupid creatures to have around. I think weought to take with us an experienced nurse, who is intelligent andup-to-date.""Oh, I know the very one!" exclaimed Beth. "Mildred Travers. She'sperfectly splendid. I've watched her with that poor girl who was hurt atthe school, and she's as gentle and skillful as she is refined. Mildredwould bring up that baby to be as hearty and healthful as a youngsavage.""How soon could she go?" asked Uncle John."At an hour's notice, I'm sure. Trained nurses are used to sudden calls,you know. I'll see her to-morrow--if it's better weather.""Do," said Uncle John. "I suppose you girls can get ready by Saturday?""Of course!" cried Patsy and Beth in one voice."Then I'll make the reservations. Major Doyle, you will arrange yourbusiness to accompany us.""I won't!""You will, or I'll discharge you. You're working for me, aren't you?""I am, sir.""Then obey orders."CHAPTER II--EL CAJON RANCHUncle John always traveled comfortably and even luxuriously, but withoutostentation. Such conveniences as were offered the general public heindulged in, but no one would suspect him of being a multi-millionairewho might have ordered a special train of private cars had theinclination seized him. A modest little man, who had made an enormousfortune in the far Northwest--almost before he realized it--John Merrickhad never allowed the possession of money to deprive him of his simpletastes or to alter his kindly nature. He loved to be of the people andto mingle with his fellows on an equal footing, and nothing distressedhim more than to be recognized by some one as the great New Yorkfinancier. It is true that he had practically retired from business, buthis huge fortune was invested in so many channels that his name remainedprominent among men of affairs and this notoriety he was unable whollyto escape.The trip to California was a delight because none of his fellowpassengers knew his identity. During the three days' jaunt from Chicagoto Los Angeles he was recognized only as an engaging little man who wasconducting a party of three charming girls, as well as a sedate,soldierly old gentleman, into the sunny Southland for a winter'srecreation.Of these three girls we already know Patsy Doyle and Beth DeGraf, butMildred Travers remains to be introduced. The trained nurse whom Bethhad secured was tall and slight, with a sweet face, a gentle expressionand eyes so calm and deep that a stranger found it disconcerting to gazewithin them. Beth herself had similar eyes--big and fathomless--yet theywere so expressive as to allure and bewitch the beholder, while MildredTravers' eyes repelled one as being masked--as concealing some wellguarded secret. Both the major and Uncle John had felt this and it madethe latter somewhat uneasy when he reflected that he was taking thisgirl to be the trusted nurse of Louise's precious baby. He questionedBeth closely concerning Mildred and his niece declared that no kindlier,more sympathetic or more skillful nurse was ever granted a diploma. OfMildred's history she was ignorant, except that the girl had confided toher the story of her struggles to obtain recognition and to getremunerative work after graduating from the training school."Once, you know," explained Beth, "trained nurses were in such demandthat none were ever idle; but the training schools have been turningthem out in such vast numbers that only those with family influence arenow sure of work. Mildred is by instinct helpful and sympathetic--anatural born nurse, Uncle John--but because she was practically astranger in New York she was forced to do charity and hospital work, andthat is how I became acquainted with her.""She seems to bear out your endorsement, except for her eyes," saidUncle John. "I--I don't like--her eyes. They're hard. At times they seemvengeful and cruel, like tigers' eyes.""Oh, you wrong Mildred, I'm sure!" exclaimed Beth, and Uncle Johnreluctantly accepted her verdict. On the journey Miss Travers appearedwell bred and cultured, conversing easily and intelligently on a varietyof subjects, yet always exhibiting a reserve, as if she held herself tobe one apart from the others. Indeed, the girl proved so agreeable acompanion that Mr. Merrick's misgivings gradually subsided. Even themajor, still suspicious and doubtful, admitted that Mildred was "quite asuperior person."Louise had been notified by telegraph of the coming of her relatives,but they had withheld from her the fact that they were bringing a"proper" nurse to care for the Weldon baby. The party rested a day inLos Angeles and then journeyed on to Escondido, near which town theWeldon ranch was located.Louise and Arthur were both at the station with their bigseven-passenger touring car. The young mother was promptly smothered inembraces by Patsy and Beth, but when she emerged from this ordeal to behugged and kissed by Uncle John, that observing little gentleman decidedthat she looked exactly as girlish and lovely as on her wedding day.This eldest niece was, in fact, only twenty years of age--quite tooyoung to be a wife and mother. She was of that feminine type whichmatures slowly and seems to bear the mark of perpetual youth. Mrs.Weldon's slight, willowy form was still almost childlike in its lines,and the sunny, happy smile upon her face seemed that of a school-maid.That tall, boyish figure beside her, now heartily welcoming the guests,would scarcely be recognized as belonging to a husband and father. Thesetwo were more like children playing at "keeping house" than sedatemarried people. Mildred Travers observed the couple with evidentsurprise; but the others, familiar with the love story of Arthur andLouise, were merely glad to find them unchanged and enjoying theirformer health and good spirits."The baby!"That was naturally the first inquiry, voiced in concert by the latearrivals; and Louise, blushing prettily and with a delightful air ofproprietorship, laughingly assured them that "Toodlums" was very well."This is such a glorious country," she added as the big car started offwith its load, to be followed by a wagon with the baggage, "that everyliving thing flourishes here like the green bay trees--and baby is noexception. Oh, you'll love our quaint old home, Uncle John! And, Patsy,we've got such a flock of white chickens! And there's a new baby calf,Beth! And the major shall sleep in the Haunted Room, and--""Haunted?" asked the major, his eyes twinkling."I'm sure they're rats," said the little wife, "but the Mexicans claimit's the old miser himself. And the oranges are just in their prime andthe roses are simply magnificent!"So she rambled on, enthusiastic over her ranch home one moment and thenext asking eager questions about New York and her old friends there.Louise had a mother, who was just now living in Paris, much to ArthurWeldon's satisfaction. Even Louise did not miss the worldly-minded,self-centered mother with whom she had so little in common, and perhapsUncle John and his nieces would never have ventured on this visit hadMrs. Merrick been at the ranch.The California country roads are all "boulevards," although they arenothing more than native earth, rolled smooth and saturated with heavyoil until they resemble asphalt. The automobile was a fast one and itswept through the beautiful country, all fresh and green in spite of thefact that it was December, and fragrant with the scent of roses andcarnations, which bloomed on every side, until a twenty-minute runbrought them to an avenue of gigantic palms which led from the road upto the ranch house of El Cajon.Originally El Cajon had been a Spanish grant of several thousand acres,and three generations of Spanish dons had resided there. The last ofthese Cristovals had erected the present mansion--a splendid, ramblingdwelling built around an open court where a fountain splashed and tallpalms shot their swaying crowns far above the housetop. The South Wingwas the old dwelling which the builder had incorporated into the presentscheme, but the newer part was the more imposing.The walls were of great thickness and composed of adobe blocks of hugesize. These were not sun-baked, as is usual in adobe dwellings, but hadbeen burned like brick in a furnace constructed for the purpose by thefirst proprietor, and were therefore much stronger and harder thanordinary brick. In this climate there is no dampness clinging to such astructure and the rooms were extraordinarily cool in summer and warm inthe chill winter season. Surrounding the house were many magnificenttrees of tropical and semi-tropical nature, all of which had nowattained their full prime. On the south and east sides were extensiverose gardens and beds of flowers in wonderful variety.It was here that the last Senor Cristoval had brought his young bride, alady of Madrid who was reputed to have possessed great beauty; butseclusion in this retired spot, then much isolated, rendered her sounhappy that she became mentally unbalanced and in a fit of depressiontook her own life. Cristoval, until then a generous and noble man, wascompletely changed by this catastrophe. During the remainder of his lifehe was noted for parsimony and greed for money, not unmixed withcruelty. He worked his ignorant Indian and Mexican servants mercilessly,denying them proper food or wage, and his death was a relief to all.Afterward the big estate was cut up and passed into various hands. Threehundred acres of fine orange and olive groves, including the spaciousmansion, were finally sold to young Arthur Weldon."It's an awfully big place," said Louise, as the party alighted andstood upon the broad stone veranda, "but it is so quaint and charmingthat I love every stick and stone of it.""The baby!" shrieked Patsy."Where's that blessed baby?" cried Beth.Then came from the house a dusky maid bearing in her arms a soft, fluffybundle that was instantly pounced upon by the two girls, to Uncle John'shorror and dismay."Be careful, there!" he called. "You'll smother the poor thing." ButLouise laughed and regarded the scene delightedly. And little Janeseemed to appreciate the importance of the occasion, for she waved hertiny hands and cooed a welcome to her two new aunties.CHAPTER III--THAT BLESSED BABY!"Oh, you darling!""It's my turn, Patsy! Don't be selfish. Let me kiss her again.""That's enough, Beth. Here--give me my niece!""She's mine, too.""Give me that baby! There; you've made her cry.""I haven't; she's laughing because I kissed her wee nose.""Isn't she a dear, though?""Now, girls," suggested Louise, "suppose we give Uncle John and themajor a peep at her."Reluctantly the bundle was abandoned to its mother, who carried it towhere Mr. Merrick was nervously standing. "Yes, yes," he said, touchingone cheek gently with the tip of his finger. "It--it's a fine child,Louise; really a--a--creditable child. But--eh--isn't it rather--soft?""Of course, Uncle John. All babies are soft. Aren't you going to kisslittle Jane?""It--won't--hurt it?""Not a bit. Haven't Beth and Patsy nearly kissed its skin off?""Babies," asserted Major Doyle, stiffly, "were made to be kissed.Anyhow, that's the penalty they pay for being born helpless." And withthis he kissed little Jane on both cheeks with evident satisfaction.This bravado encouraged Uncle John to do likewise, but after theoperation he looked sheepish and awkward, as if he felt that he hadtaken an unfair advantage of the wee lady."She seems very red, Louise," he remarked, to cover his embarrassment."Oh, no, Uncle! Everyone says she's the whitest baby of her age theyever saw. She's only five months old, remember.""Dear me; how very young.""But she's getting older every day," said Arthur, coming in from thegarage. "What do you folks think of her, anyhow?"The rhapsodies were fairly bewildering, yet very pleasant to the youngfather and mother. While they continued, Mildred Travers quietly tookthe child from Louise and tenderly bent over it. Only the major notedthe little scene that ensued.The eyes of the dark-skinned Mexican girl flashed sudden fire. Shepulled Mildred's sleeve and then fell back discomfited as the cold,fathomless eyes of the trained nurse met her own. For an instant thegirl stood irresolute; then with a quick, unexpected motion she tore theinfant from Mildred's arms and rushed into the house with it.Arthur, noticing this last action, laughed lightly. The major frowned.Mildred folded her arms and stood in the background unmoved andunobtrusive. Louise was chatting volubly with her two cousins."Was that the same Mexican girl who fed the baby chile con carne?"inquired Uncle John anxiously."Mercy, no!" cried Arthur. "What ever put such an idea into your head?""I believe the major suggested it," replied the little man. "Anyhow, itwas something hot, so Louise wrote.""Oh, yes; when Toodlums had the colic. It was some queer Mexican remedy,but I'm confident it saved the child's life. The girl is a treasure."Uncle John coughed and glanced uneasily at Miss Travers, who pretendednot to have overheard this conversation. But the major was highly amusedand decided it was a good joke on Mr. Merrick. It was so good a jokethat it might serve as a basis for many cutting remarks in futurediscussions. His brother-in-law was so seldom guilty of an error injudgment that Major Doyle, who loved to oppose him because he was sofond of him, hailed Uncle John's present predicament with pure joy.Louise created a welcome diversion by ushering them all into the houseand through the stately rooms to the open court, where a luncheon tablewas set beneath the shade of the palms.Here was the baby again, with the Mexican girl, Inez, hugging itdefiantly to her bosom as she sat upon a stone bench.Between the infant, the excitement of arrival and admiration for theWeldon establishment, so far surpassing their most ardent anticipations,Beth and Patsy had little desire for food. Uncle John and the major,however, did ample justice to an excellent repast, which was served bytwo more Mexican maids."Do you employ only Mexicans for servants?" inquired Uncle John, whenfinally the men were left alone to smoke while the girls, under Louise'sguidance, explored the house."Only Mexicans, except for the Chinese cook," replied Arthur. "It isimpossible to get American help and the Japs I won't have. Some of theranch hands have been on the place for years, but the house servants Ihired after I come here.""A lazy lot, eh?" suggested the major."Quite right, sir. But I find them faithful and easy to manage. You willnotice that I keep two or three times as many house servants as asimilar establishment would require in the east; but they are contentwith much smaller wages. It's the same way on the ranch. Yet without theMexicans the help problem would be a serious one out here.""Does the ranch pay?" asked Mr. Merrick."I haven't been here long enough to find out," answered Arthur, with asmile. "So far, I've done all the paying. We shall harvest a big orangecrop next month, and in time the olives will mature; but I've an ideathe expenses will eat up the receipts, by the end of the year.""No money in a California ranch, eh?""Why, some of my neighbors are making fortunes, I hear; but they areexperienced ranchers. On the other hand, my next neighbor at the northis nearly bankrupt, because he's a greenhorn from the east. Some time,when I've learned the game, I hope to make this place something morethan a plaything.""You'll stay here, then?" asked the major, with astonishment. "It's themost delightful country on earth, for a residence. You'll admit that,sir, when you know it better."Meantime the baggage wagon arrived and Patsy and Beth, having picked outtheir rooms, began to unpack and "settle" in their new quarters.CHAPTER IV--LITTLE JANE'S TWO NURSESLouise had been considerably puzzled to account for the presence of thestrange girl in Uncle John's party. At first she did not know whether toreceive Mildred Travers as an equal or a dependent. Not until the threenieces were seated together in Louise's own room, exchanging girlishconfidences, was Mildred's status clearly defined to the young mother."You see," explained Patsy, "Uncle John was dreadfully worried over thebaby. When you wrote of that terrible time the dear little one had withthe colic, and how you were dependent on a Mexican girl who fed theinnocent lamb some horrid hot stuff, Uncle declared it was a shame toimperil such a precious life, and that you must have a thoroughlycompetent nurse.""But," said Louise, quite bewildered, "I'm afraid you don't understandthat--""And so," broke in Beth, "I told him I knew of a perfect jewel of atrained nurse, who knows as much as most doctors and could guard thebaby from a thousand dangers. I'd watched her care for one of our poorgirls who was knocked down by an automobile and badly injured, andMildred was so skillful and sympathetic that she quite won my heart. Iwasn't sure, at first, she'd come way out to California, to stay, butwhen I broached the subject she cried out: 'Thank heaven!' in such aheart-felt, joyous tone that I was greatly relieved. So we brought heralong, and--""Really, Beth, I don't need her," protested Louise. "The Mexicans areconsidered the best nurses in the world, and Inez is perfectly devotedto baby and worships her most sinfully. I got her from a woman whoformerly employed her as a nurse and she gave Inez a splendidrecommendation. Both Arthur and I believe she saved baby's life by herprompt action when the colic caught her.""But the hot stuff!" cried Patsy."It might have ruined baby's stomach for life," asserted Beth."No; it's a simple Mexican remedy that is very efficient. Perhaps, in myanxiety, I wrote more forcibly than the occasion justified," admittedLouise; "but I have every confidence in Inez."The girls were really dismayed and frankly displayed their chagrin.Louise laughed at them."Never mind," she said; "it's just one of dear Uncle John's blunders intrying to be good to me; so let's endeavor to wiggle out of the hole asgracefully as possible.""I don't see how you'll do it," confessed Patsy. "Here's Mildred,permanently engaged and all expenses paid.""She is really a superior person, as you'll presently discover," addedBeth. "I've never dared question her as to her family history, but Iventure to say she is well born and with just as good antecedents as wehave--perhaps better.""She's very quiet and undemonstrative," said Patsy musingly."Naturally, being a trained nurse. I liked her face," said Louise, "buther eyes puzzle me.""They are her one unfortunate feature," Beth agreed."They're cold," said Patsy; "that's the trouble. You never get _into_her eyes, somehow. They repel you.""I never look at them," said Beth. "Her mouth is sweet and sensitive andher facial expression pleasant. She moves as gracefully and silentlyas--as--""As a cat," suggested Patsy."And she is acquainted with all the modern methods of nursing, althoughshe's done a lot of hospital work, too.""Well," said Louise, reflectively, "I'll talk it over with Arthur andsee what we can do. Perhaps baby needs two nurses. We can't dischargeInez, for Toodlums is even more contented with her than with me; but Iadmit it will be a satisfaction to have so thoroughly competent a nurseas Miss Travers at hand in case of emergency. And, above all else, Idon't want to hurt dear Uncle John's feelings."She did talk it over with Arthur, an hour later, and her boy husbanddeclared he had "sized up the situation" the moment he laid eyes onMildred at the depot. They owed a lot to Uncle John, he added, and themost graceful thing they could do, under the circumstances, was toinstal Miss Travers as head nurse and retain Inez as her assistant."The chances are," said Arthur laughingly, "that the Mexican girl willhave most of the care of Toodlums, as she does now, while the superiorwill remain content to advise Inez and keep a general supervision overthe nursery. So fix it up that way, Louise, and everybody will behappy."Uncle John was thanked so heartily for his thoughtfulness by the youngcouple that his kindly face glowed with satisfaction, and then Louisebegan the task of reconciling the two nurses to the proposed arrangementand defining the duties of each. Mildred Travers inclined her headgraciously and said it was an admirable arrangement and quitesatisfactory to her. But Inez listened sullenly and her dark eyes glowedwith resentment."You not trust me more, then?" she added."Oh, yes, Inez; we trust you as much as ever," Louise assured her."Then why you hire this strange woman?""She is a present to us, from my Uncle John, who came this morning. Hedidn't know you were here, you see, or he would not have brought her."Inez remained unmollified."Miss Travers is a very skillful baby doctor," continued Louise, "andshe can mend broken bones, cure diseases and make the sick well."Inez nodded."I know. A witch-woman," she said in a whisper. "You can trust mesenora, but you cannot trust her. No witch-woman can be trusted."Louise smiled but thought best not to argue the point farther. Inez wentback to the nursery hugging Toodlums as jealously as if she feared someone would snatch the little one from her arms.Next morning Mildred said to Beth, in whom she confided most:"The Mexican girl does not like me. She is devotedly attached to thebaby and fears I will supplant her.""That is true," admitted Beth, who had conceived the same idea; "but youmustn't mind her, Mildred. The poor thing's only half civilized anddoesn't understand our ways very well. What do you think of littleJane?""I never knew a sweeter, healthier or more contented baby. She smilesand sleeps perpetually and seems thoroughly wholesome. Were she toremain in her present robust condition there would be little need of myservices, I assure you. But--""But what?" asked Beth anxiously, as the nurse hesitated."All babies have their ills, and little Jane cannot escape them. Therainy season is approaching and dampness is trying to infants. Therewill be months of moisture, and then--I shall be needed.""Have you been in California before?" asked Beth, impressed by Mildred'spositive assertion.The girl hesitated a moment, looking down."I was born here," she said in low, tense tones."Indeed! Why, I thought all the white people in California came from theeast. I had no idea there could be such a thing as a white native."Mildred smiled with her lips. Her imperturbable eyes never smiled."I am only nineteen, in spite of my years of training and hard work,"she said, a touch of bitterness in her voice. "My father came herenearly thirty years ago.""To Southern California?""Yes.""Did you live near here, then?"Mildred looked around her."I have been in this house often, as a girl," she said slowly. "SenorCristoval was--an acquaintance of my father."Beth stared at her, greatly interested."How strange!" she exclaimed. "You cannot be far from your own family,then," she added.Mildred shivered a little, twisting her fingers nervously together. Shewas indeed sensitive, despite that calm, repellent look in her eyes."I hope," she said, evading Beth's remark, "to be of real use to thisdear baby, whom I already love. The Mexican girl, Inez, is well enoughas a caretaker, but her judgment could not be trusted in emergencies.These Mexicans lose their heads easily and in crises are liable to domore harm than good. Mrs. Weldon's arrangement is an admirable one and Iconfess it relieves me of much drudgery and confinement. I shall keep awatchful supervision over my charge and be prepared to meet anyemergency."Beth was not wholly satisfied with this interview. Mildred had told herjust enough to render her curious, but had withheld any information asto how a California girl happened to be in New York working as a trainednurse. She remembered the girl's fervent exclamation: "Thank heaven!"when asked if she would go to Southern California, to a ranch called ElCajon, to take care of a new baby. Beth judged from this that Mildredwas eager to get back home again; yet she had evaded any reference toher family or former friends, and since her arrival had expressed nowish to visit them.There was something strange and unaccountable about the affair, and forthis reason Beth refrained from mentioning to her cousins that MildredTravers was a Californian by birth and was familiar with the scenesaround El Cajon ranch and even with the old house itself. Perhaps someday the girl would tell her more, when she would be able to relate thewhole story to Patsy and Louise.Of course the new arrivals were eager to inspect the orange and olivegroves, so on the day following that of their arrival the entire partyprepared to join Arthur Weldon in a tramp over the three hundred acreranch.A little way back of the grounds devoted to the residence and gardensbegan the orange groves, the dark green foliage just now hung thick withfruit, some green, some pale yellow and others of that deep orange huewhich denotes full maturity. "They consider five acres of oranges apretty fair ranch, out here," said the young proprietor; "but I have ahundred and ten acres of bearing trees. It will take a good many freightcars to carry my oranges to the eastern markets.""And what a job to pick them all!" exclaimed Patsy."We don't pick them," said Arthur. "I sell the crop on the trees and thepurchaser sends a crew of men who gather the fruit in quick order. Theyare taken to big warehouses and sorted into sizes, wrapped and packedand loaded onto cars. That is a separate branch of the business withwhich we growers have nothing to do."Between the orange and the olive groves, and facing a little lane, theycame upon a group of adobe huts--a little village in itself. Manychildren were playing about the yards, while several stalwart Mexicanslounged in the shade quietly smoking their eternal cigarettes. Womenappeared in the doorways, shading their eyes with their hands as theycuriously examined the approaching strangers.Only one man, a small, wiry fellow with plump brown cheeks and hair andbeard of snowy whiteness, detached himself from the group and advancedto meet his master. Removing his wide sombrero he made a sweeping bow, agesture so comical that Patsy nearly laughed aloud."This is Miguel Zaloa, the ranchero, who has charge of all my men," saidArthur. Then, addressing the man, he asked: "Any news, Miguel?""Ever'thing all right, Meest Weld," replied the ranchero, his brighteyes earnestly fixed upon his employer's face. "Some pardon, senor;but--Mees Jane is well?""Quite well, thank you, Miguel.""Mees Jane," said the man, shyly twirling his hat in his hands as hecast an upward glance at the young ladies, "ees cherub young lade; muchlove an' beaut'ful. Ees not?""She's a dear," replied Patsy, with ready sympathy for the sentiment andgreatly pleased to find the man so ardent an admirer of the baby."Ever'bod' love Mees Jane," continued old Miguel, simply. "Since shehave came, sun ees more bright, air ees more good, tamale ees moresweet. Will Inez bring Mees Jane to see us to-day, Meest Weld?""Perhaps so," laughed Arthur; and then, as he turned to lead them to theolive trees, Louise, blushing prettily at the praise bestowed upon herdarling, pressed a piece of shining silver into old Miguel's hand--whichhe grasped with alacrity and another low bow."No doubt he's right about little Jane," remarked the major, when theyhad passed beyond earshot, "but I've a faint suspicion the old banditpraised her in order to get the money.""Oh, no!" cried Louise; "he's really sincere. It is quite wonderful howcompletely all our Mexicans are wrapped up in baby. If Inez doesn'twheel the baby-cab over to the quarters every day, they come to thehouse in droves to inquire if 'Mees Jane' is well. Their love for her isalmost pathetic.""Don't the fellows ever work?" inquired Uncle John."Yes, indeed," said Arthur. "Have you any fault to find with thecondition of this ranch? As compared with many others it is a model ofperfection. At daybreak the mules are cultivating the earth around thetrees; when the sun gets low the irrigating begins. We keep the harrowsand the pumps busy every day. But during the hours when the sun shinesbrightest the Mexicans do not love to work, and it is policy--so long asthey accomplish their tasks--to allow them to choose their own hours forlabor.""They seem a shiftless lot," said the major."They're as good as their average type. But some--old Miguel, forinstance--are better than the ordinary. Miguel is really a clever andindustrious fellow. He has lived here practically all his life and knowsintimately every tree on the place.""Did he serve the old Spanish don--Cristoval?" asked Beth."Yes; and his father before him. I've often wondered how old Miguel is.According to his own story he must be nearly a hundred; but that'sabsurd. Anyhow, he's a faithful, capable fellow, and rules the otherswith the rigor of an autocrat. I don't know what I should do withouthim.""You seem to have purchased a lot of things with this ranch," observedUncle John. "A capital old mansion, a band of trained servants, and--aghost.""Oh, yes!" exclaimed Louise. "Major, did the ghost bother you lastnight?""Not to my knowledge," said the old soldier. "I was too tired to keepawake, you know; therefore his ghostship could not have disturbed mewithout being unusually energetic.""Have you ever seen the ghost, Louise?" inquired Patsy."No, dear, nor even heard it. But Arthur has. It's in the blue room, youknow, near Arthur's study--one of the prettiest rooms in the house.""That's why we gave it to the major," added Arthur. "Once or twice, whenI've been sitting in the study, at about midnight, reading and smokingmy pipe, I've heard some queer noises coming from the blue room; but Iattribute them to rats. These old houses are full of the pests and wecan't manage to get rid of them.""I imagine the walls are not all solid," explained Louise, "for some ofthose on the outside are from six to eight feet in thickness, and itwould be folly to make them of solid adobe.""As for that, adobe costs nothing," said Arthur, "and it would be farcheaper to make a solid wall than a hollow one. But between the blocksare a lot of spaces favored as residences by our enemies the rats, andthere they are safe from our reach.""But the ghost?" demanded Patsy."Oh, the ghost exists merely in the minds of the simple Mexicans, overthere at the quarters. Most of them were here when that rascally oldCristoval died, and no money would hire one of them to sleep in thehouse. You see, they feared and hated the old fellow, who doubtlesstreated them cruelly. That is why we had to get our house servants froma distance, and even then we had some difficulty in quieting their fearswhen they heard the ghost tales. Little Inez," added Louise, "isespecially superstitious, and I'm sure if she were not so devoted tobaby she would have left us weeks ago.""Inez told me this morning," said Beth, "that the major must be a verybrave man and possessed some charm that protected him from ghosts, or hewould never dare sleep in the blue room.""I have a charm," declared the major, gravely, "and it's just commonsense."But now they were among the graceful, broad-spreading olives, at thisseason barren of fruit but very attractive in their gray-green foliage.Arthur had to explain all about olive culture to the ignorant Easternersand he did this with much satisfaction because he had so recentlyacquired the knowledge himself."I can see," said Uncle John, "that your ranch is to be a great gamble.In good years, you win; a crop failure will cost you a fortune.""True," admitted the young man; "but an absolute crop failure is unknownin this section. Some years are better than others, but all are goodyears."It was quite a long tramp, but a very pleasant one, and by the time theyreturned to the house everyone was ready for luncheon, which awaitedthem in the shady court, beside the splashing fountain. Patsy and Bethdemanded the baby, so presently Inez came with little Jane, and MildredTravers followed after. The two nurses did not seem on very friendlyterms, for the Mexican girl glared fiercely at her rival and Mildredreturned a basilisk stare that would have confounded anyone lessdefiant.This evident hostility amused Patsy, annoyed Beth and worried Louise;but the baby was impartial. From her seat on Inez' lap little Janestretched out her tiny hands to Mildred, smiling divinely, and the nursetook the child in spite of Inez' weak resistance, fondling the littleone lovingly. There was a sharp contrast between Mildred's expert andadroit handling of the child and Inez' tender awkwardness, and this wasso evident that all present noticed it.Perhaps Inez herself felt this difference as, sullen and jealous, sheeyed the other intently. Then little Jane transferred her favors to herformer nurse and held out her hands to Inez. With a cry that was half asob the girl caught the baby in her arms and held it so closely thatPatsy had hard work to make her give it up.By the time Uncle John had finished his lunch both Patsy and Beth hadtaken turns holding the fascinating "Toodlums," and now the latterplunged Jane into Mr. Merrick's lap and warned him to be very careful.Uncle John was embarrassed but greatly delighted. He cooed and cluckedto the baby until it fairly laughed aloud with glee, and then he madefaces until the infant became startled and regarded him with gravesuspicion."If you've done making an old fool of yourself, sir," said the majorseverely, "you'll oblige me by handing over my niece.""_Your_ niece!" was the indignant reply; "she's nothing of the sort.Jane is _my_ niece.""No more than mine," insisted the major; "and you're worrying her. Willyou hand her over, you selfish man, or must I take her by force?"Uncle John reluctantly submitted to the divorce and the major handledthe baby as if she had been glass."Ye see," he remarked, lapsing slightly into his Irish brogue, as he wasapt to do when much interested, "I've raised a daughter meself, whichJohn Merrick hasn't, and I know the ways of the wee women. They knowvery well when a friend has 'em, and--Ouch! Leg-go, I say!"Little Jane had his grizzly moustache fast in two chubby fists and themajor's howls aroused peals of laughter.Uncle John nearly rolled from his chair in an ecstacy of delight and hecould have shaken Mildred Travers for releasing the grip of the babyfingers and rescuing the major from torture."Laugh, ye satyr!" growled the major, wiping the tears from his owneyes. "It's lucky you have no hair nor whiskers--any more than anegg--or you'd be writhing in agony before now." He turned to lookwonderingly at the crowing baby in Mildred's arms. "It's a femaleSandow!" he averred. "The grip of her hands is something marvelous!"CHAPTER V--INEZ THREATENS"Yes," said Louise, a week later, "we all make fools of ourselves overToodlums, Really, girls, Jane is a very winning baby. I don't say thatbecause I'm her mother, understand. If she were anyone else's baby, I'dsay the same thing.""Of course," agreed Patsy. "I don't believe such a baby was ever beforeborn. She's so happy, and sweet, and--and--""And comfortable," said Beth. "Indeed, Jane is a born sorceress; shebewitches everyone who beholds her dear dimpled face. This is animpartial opinion, you know; I'd say the same thing if I were not heradoring auntie.""It's true," Patsy declared. "Even the Mexicans worship her. And MildredTravers--the sphinx--whose blood I am sure is ice-water, displays adevotion for baby that is absolutely amazing. I don't blame her, youknow, for it must be a real delight to care for such a fairy. I'msurprised, Louise, that you can bear to have baby out of your sight somuch of the time."Louise laughed lightly."I'm not such an unfeeling mother as you think," she answered. "I knowjust where baby is every minute and she is never out of my thoughts.However, with two nurses, both very competent, to care for Toodlums, Ido not think it necessary to hold her in my lap every moment."Here Uncle John and the major approached the palm, under which the threenieces were sitting, and Mr. Merrick exclaimed:"I'll bet a cookie you were talking of baby Jane.""You'd win, then," replied Patsy. "There's no other topic ofconversation half so delightful.""Jane," observed the major, musingly, as he seated himself in a rusticchair. "A queer name for a baby, Louise. Whatever possessed you toburden the poor infant with it?""Burden? Nonsense, Major! It's a charming name," cried Patsy."She is named after poor Aunt Jane," said Louise.A silence somewhat awkward followed."My sister Jane," remarked Uncle John gravely, "was in some respects anadmirable woman.""And in many others detestable," said Beth in frank protest. "The onlygood thing I can remember about Aunt Jane," she added, "is that shebrought us three girls together, when we had previously been almostunaware of one anothers' existence. And she made us acquainted withUncle John.""Then she did us another favor," added Patsy. "She died.""Poor Aunt Jane!" sighed Louise. "I wish I could say something to provethat I revere her memory. Had the baby been a boy, its name would havebeen John; but being a girl I named her for Uncle John's sister--thehighest compliment I could conceive."Uncle John nodded gratefully. "I wasn't especially fond of Jane,myself," said he, "but it's a family name and I'm glad you gave it tobaby.""Jane Merrick," said the major, "was very cruel to Patsy and to me, andso I'm sorry you gave her name to baby.""Always contrary, eh?" returned Uncle John, with a tolerant smile, forhe was in no wise disturbed by this adverse criticism of his defunctsister--a criticism that in fact admitted little argument. "But itoccurs to me that the most peculiar thing about this name is that youthree girls, who were once Aunt Jane's nieces, are now Niece Jane'saunts!""Except me," smiled Louise. "I'm happy to claim a closer relationship.But returning to our discussion of Aunt Jane. She was reallyinstrumental in making our fortunes as well as in promoting ourhappiness, so I have no regret because I made baby her namesake.""The name of Jane," said Patsy, "is in itself beautiful, because it issimple and old-fashioned. Now that it is connected with my chubby nieceit will derive a new and added luster.""Quite true," declared Uncle John."Where is Arthur?" inquired the major."Writing his weekly batch of letters," replied Arthur's wife. "When theyare ready he is to drive us all over to town in the big car, and we haveplanned to have lunch there and to return home in the cool of theevening. Will that program please our guests?"All voiced their approval and presently Arthur appeared with his lettersand bade them get ready for the ride, while he brought out the car. Healways drove the machine himself, as no one on the place was competentto act as chauffeur; but he managed it admirably and enjoyed driving.Louise went to the nursery to kiss little Jane. The baby lay in hercrib, fast asleep. Near her sat Mildred Travers, reading a book.Crouched in the window-seat was Inez, hugging her knees and gazingmoodily out into the garden.The nursery was in the East Wing, facing the courtyard but also lookingupon the rose garden, its one deep-set window being near a corner of theroom. On one side it connected with a small chamber used by Inez, whichoccupied half the depth of the wing and faced the garden. The other halfof the space was taken by a small sewing-room letting out upon thecourt.At the opposite side of little Jane's nursery was a roomy chamber whichhad been given up to Mildred, and still beyond this were the roomsoccupied by Arthur and Louise, all upon the ground floor. By thisarrangement the baby had a nurse on either side and was only one roomremoved from its parents.This wing was said to be the oldest part of the mansion, a fact attestedby the great thickness of the walls. Just above was the famous blue roomoccupied by the major, where ghosts were supposed at times to hold theirrevels. Yet, despite its clumsy construction, the East Wing was cheeryand pleasant in all its rooms and sunlight flooded it the year round.After the master and mistress had driven away to town with their guests,Inez sat for a time by the window, still motionless save for anoccasional wicked glance over her shoulder at Mildred, who read placidlyas she rocked to and fro in her chair. The presence of the Americannurse seemed to oppress the girl, for not a semblance of friendship hadyet developed between the two; so presently Inez rose and glided softlyout into the court, leaving Mildred to watch the sleeping baby.She took the path that led to the Mexican quarters and ten minutes laterentered the hut where Bella, the skinny old hag who was the wife toMiguel Zaloa, was busy with her work."Ah, Inez. But where ees Mees Jane?" was the eager inquiry.Inez glanced around to find several moustached faces in the doorway.Every dark, earnest eye repeated the old woman's question. The girlshrugged her shoulders."She is care for by the new nurse, Meeldred. I left her sleeping.""Who sleeps, Inez?" demanded the aged Miguel. "Ees it the new nurse, orMees Jane?""Both, perhap." She laughed scornfully and went out to the shed thatconnected two of the adobe dwellings and served as a shady loungingplace. Here a group quickly formed around her, including those whofollowed from the hut."I shall kill her, some day," declared the girl, showing her gleamingteeth. "What right have she to come an' take our baby?"Miguel stroked his white moustache reflectively."Ees this Meeldred good to Mees Jane?" he asked."When anyone looks, yes," replied Inez reluctantly. "She fool even baby,some time, who laugh at her. But poor baby do not know. I know. ThisMeeldred ees a devil!" she hissed.The listening group displayed no emotion at this avowal. They eyed thegirl attentively, as if expecting to hear more. But Inez, having ventedher spite, now sulked."Where she came from?" asked Miguel, the recognized spokesman."Back there. New York," tossing her head in an easterly direction."Why she come?" continued the old man."The little mans with no hair--Meest Merrick--he think I not know aboutbabies. He think this girl who learns babies in school, an' from books,know more than me who has care for many baby--but for none like our MeesJane. Mees Jane ees angel!"They all nodded in unison, approving her assertion."Eet ees not bad thought, that," remarked old Bella. "Books an' schoolsees good to teach wisdom.""Pah! Not for babies," objected her husband, shaking his head. "Book an'school can not grow orange, either. To do a thing many time ees to knowit better than a book can know.""Besides," said Inez, "this Meeldred ees witch-woman.""Yes?""I know it. She come from New York. But yesterday she say to me: 'Let uswheel leetle Jane to the live oak at Burney's.' How can she know thereis live oak at Burney's? Then, the first day she come, she say: 'Takebaby's milk into vault under your room an' put on stone shelf to keepcool.' I, who live here, do not know of such a vault. She show me somestone steps in one corner, an' she push against stone wall. Then wallopen like door, an' I find vault. But how she know it, unless she iswitch-woman?"There was a murmur of astonishment. Old Miguel scratched his head as ifpuzzled."I, too, know about thees vault," said he; "but then, eet ees I know allof the old house, as no one else know. Once I live there with SenorCristoval. But how can thees New York girl know?"There was no answer. Merely puzzled looks."What name has she, Inez?" suddenly asked Miguel."Travers. Meeldred Travers."The old man thought deeply and then shook his head with a sigh."In seexty year there be no Travers near El Cajon," he asserted. "Ithought maybe she have been here before. But no. Even in old days thereees no Travers come here.""There ees a Travers Ranch over at the north," asserted Bella."Eet ees a name; there be no Travers live there," declared Miguel, stillwith that puzzled look upon his plump features.Inez laughed at him."She is witch-woman, I tell you. I know it! Look in her eyes, an' see."The group of Mexicans moved uneasily. Old Miguel deliberately rolled acigarette and lighted it."Thees woman I have not yet see," he announced, after due reflection."But, if she ees witch-woman, eet ees bad for Mees Jane to be near her.""That is what _I_ say!" cried Inez eagerly. She spoke better Englishthan the others. "She will bewitch my baby; she will make it sickly, soit will die!" And she wrung her hands in piteous misery.The Mexicans exchanged frightened looks. Old Bella alone seemedunaffected."Mees Weld own her baby--not us," suggested Miguel's wife. "If Mees Weldtheenk thees girl is safe nurse, what have we to say--eh?""I say she shall not kill my baby!" cried Inez fiercely. "That is what_I_ say, Bella. Before she do that, I kill thees Meeldred Travers."Miguel examined the girl's face intently."You are fool, Inez," he asserted. "It ees bad to keel anything--eventhees New York witch-woman. Be compose an' keep watch. Nothing harm MeesJane if you watch. Where are your folks, girl?""Live in San Diego," replied Inez, again sullen."Once I know your father. He ees good man, but drink too much. If youmake quarrel about thees new nurse, you get sent home. Then you loseMees Jane. So keep compose, an' watch. If you see anything wrong, cometo me an' tell it. That ees best."Inez glanced around the group defiantly, but all nodded approval of oldMiguel's advice. She rose from the bench where she was seated, shruggedher shoulders disdainfully and walked away without a word.CHAPTER VI--A DINNER WITH THE NEIGHBORSEscondido, the nearest town and post office to El Cajon Ranch, is aquaint little place with a decided Mexican atmosphere. Those Californiainhabitants whom we call, for convenience, "Mexicans," are not allnatives of Mexico, by any means. Most of them are a mixed breed derivedfrom the early Spanish settlers and the native Indian tribes--both alikepractically extinct in this locality--and have never stepped foot inMexican territory, although the boundary line is not far distant.Because the true Mexican is generally a similar admixture of Indian andSpaniard, it is customary to call these Californians by the sameappellation. The early Spaniards left a strong impress upon this state,and even in the newly settled districts the Spanish architectureappropriately prevails, as typical of a semi-tropical country which owedits first civilizing influences to old Spain.The houses of Escondido are a queer mingling of modern bungalows andantique adobe dwellings. Even the business street shows many adobestructures. A quiet, dreamy little town, with a comfortable hotel andexcellent stores, it is much frequented by the wealthy ranchers in itsneighborhood.After stopping at the post office, Arthur drove down a little sidestreet to a weather-beaten, unprepossessing building which bore the word"Restaurant" painted in dim white letters upon its one window. Here hehalted the machine."Oh," said Beth, drawing a long breath. "Is this one of your littlejokes, Arthur?""A joke? Didn't we come for luncheon, then?""We did, and I'm ravenous," said Patsy. "But you informed us that thereis a good hotel here, on the main street.""So there is," admitted Arthur; "but it's like all hotels. Now, thisis--different. If you're hungry; if you want a treat--something out ofthe ordinary--just follow me."Louise was laughing at their doubting expressions and this care-freelevity led them to obey their host's injunction. Then the dingy dooropened and out stepped a young fellow whom the girls decided must beeither a cowboy or a clever imitation of one.He seemed very young--a mere boy--for all his stout little form. He wasbareheaded and a shock of light, tow-colored hair was in picturesquedisarray. A blue flannel shirt, rolled up at the sleeves, a pair of drabcorduroy trousers and rough shoes completed his attire. Pausingawkwardly in the doorway, he first flushed red and then advanced boldlyto shake Arthur's hand."Why, Weldon, this is an unexpected pleasure," he exclaimed in apleasant voice that belied his rude costume, for its tones were wellmodulated and cultured. "I've been trying to call you up for three days,but something is wrong with the line. How's baby?"This last question was addressed to Louise, who shook the youth's handcordially."Baby is thriving finely," she reported, and then introduced her friendsto Mr. Rudolph Hahn, who, she explained, was one of their nearestneighbors."We almost crowd the Weldons," he said, "for our house is only fivemiles distant from theirs; so we've been getting quite chummy since theymoved to El Cajon. Helen--that's my wife, you know--is an humbleworshiper at the shrine of Miss Jane Weldon, as we all are, in fact.""Your wife!" cried Patsy in surprise.He laughed."You think I'm an infant, only fit to play with Jane," said he; "but Iassure you I could vote, if I wanted to--which I don't. I think, sir,"turning to Uncle John, "that my father knows you quite well.""Why, surely you're not the son of Andy Hahn, the steel king?""I believe they do give him that royal title; but Dad is only a monarchin finance, and when he visits my ranch he's as much a boy as his son.""It scarcely seems possible," declared Mr. Merrick, eyeing the roughcostume wonderingly but also with approval. "How long have you lived outhere?""Six years, sir. I'm an old inhabitant. Weldon, here, has only beenalive for six months.""Alive?""Of course. One breathes, back east, but only lives in California."During the laughter that followed this enthusiastic epigram Arthurushered the party into the quaint Spanish restaurant. The room was cleanand neat, despite the fact that the floor was strewn with sawdust andthe tables covered with white oilcloth. An anxious-eyed, dapper littleman with a foreign face and manner greeted them effusively and asked inbroken English their commands.Arthur ordered the specialties of the house. "These friends, Castro, arefrom the far East, and I've told them of your famous cuisine. Don'tdisappoint them.""May I join you?" asked Rudolph Hahn. "I wish I'd brought Nell overto-day; she'd have been delighted with this meeting. But we didn't knowyou were coming. That confounded telephone doesn't reach you at all.""I'm going over to the office to see about that telephone," said Arthur."I believe I'll do the errand while Castro is preparing his compounds.I'm always uneasy when the telephone is out of order.""You ought to be," said Rudolph, "with that blessed baby in the house.It might save you thirty precious minutes in getting a doctor.""Does your line work?" asked Louise."Yes; it seems to get all connections but yours. So I imagine somethingis wrong with your phone, or near the house.""I'll have them send a repair man out at once," said Arthur, anddeparted for the telephone office, accompanied by his fellow rancher.While they were gone Louise told them something of young Hahn's history.He had eloped, at seventeen years of age, with his father'sstenographer, a charming girl of eighteen who belonged to one of thebest families in Washington. Old Hahn was at first furious andthreatened to disinherit the boy, but when he found the young bride'sfamily still more furious and preparing to annul the marriage on thegrounds of the groom's youth, the great financier's mood changed and hewhisked the pair off to California and bought for them ahalf-million-dollar ranch, where they had lived for six years a life ofunalloyed bliss. Having no children of their own, the Hahns were devotedto little Jane and it was Rudolph who had given the baby the sobriquetof "Toodlums." At almost any time, night or day, the Hahn automobile wasliable to arrive at El Cajon for a sight of the baby."Rudolph--we call him 'Dolph,' you know--has not a particle of businessinstinct," said Louise, "so he will never be able to take his father'splace in the financial world. And he runs his ranch so extravagantlythat it costs the pater a small fortune every year. Yet they areagreeable neighbors, artless and unconventional as children, and surelythe great Hahn fortune won't suffer much through their inroads."When Arthur returned he brought with him still another neighboringranchman, an enormous individual fully six feet tall and broad inproportion, who fairly filled the doorway as he entered. This man wasabout thirty years of age, stern of feature and with shaggy brows thatoverhung a pair of peaceful blue eyes which ought to have been set inthe face of some child. This gave him a whimsical look that almostinvariably evoked a smile when anyone observed him for the first time.He walked with a vigorous, aggressive stride and handled his big bodywith consummate grace and ease. His bow, when Arthur introduced him, wasthat of an old world cavalier."Here is another of our good friends for you to know. He's our neighborat the north and is considered the most enterprising orange grower inall California," announced Weldon, with a chuckle that indicated he hadsaid something funny."Lemon," said the man, speaking in such a shrill, high-pitched tenorvoice that the sound was positively startling, coming from so massive achest."I meant lemon," Arthur hastened to say. "Permit me to introduce Mr.Bulwer Runyon, formerly of New York but now the pride of the Pacificcoast, where his superb oranges--""Lemons," piped the high, childish voice."Whose lemons are the sourest and--and--juiciest ever grown.""What there are of them," added the man in a wailing tenor."We are highly honored to meet Mr. Bulwer Runyon," said the major,noticing that the girls were for once really embarrassed how to greetthis new acquaintance."Out here," remarked Dolph Hahn, with a grin, "we drop the handle to hisname and call him 'Bul Run' for short. Sounds sort of patriotic, youknow, and it's not inappropriate.""You wrong me," said the big rancher, squeaking the words cheerfully butat the same time frowning in a way that might well have terrified apirate. "I'm not a bull and I don't run. It's enough exertion to walk.Therefore I ride. My new car is equipped with one of those remarkable--""Pardon me; we will not discuss your new car, if you please," saidArthur. "We wish to talk of agreeable things. The marvelous Castro isconcocting some of his mysterious dishes and we wish you to assist us injudging their merits.""I shall be glad to, for I'm pitifully hungry," said the tenor voice. "Ihad breakfast at seven, you know--like a working man--and the ride overhere in my new six-cylinder machine, which has a wonderful--""Never mind the machine, please. Forget it, and try to be sociable,"begged Dolph."How is the baby, Mrs. Weldon?""Well and hearty, Bulwer," replied Louise. "Why haven't you been to seelittle Jane lately?""I heard you had company," said Mr. Runyon; "and the last time I came Istayed three days and forgot all about my ranch. I've made a will, Mrs.Weldon.""A will! You're not going to die, I hope?""I join you in that hope, most fervently, for I'd hate to leave the newmachine and its--""Go on, Bulwer.""But life is fleeting, and no one knows just when it'll get to the endof its fleet. Therefore, as I love the baby better than any other objecton earth--animate or inanimate--except--""Never mind your new car."He sighed."Therefore, Mrs. Weldon, I've made Jane my heiress.""Oh, Bul! Aren't you dreadfully in debt?""Yes'm.""Is the place worth the mortgage?" inquired Arthur."Just about, although the money sharks don't think so. But all propertyout here is rapidly increasing in value," declared Runyon, earnestly,"so, if I can manage to hold on a while longer, Toodlums will inherita--a--several fine lemon trees, at least."Uncle John was delighted with the big fellow with the small voice. Eventhe major clapped Bul Run on the shoulder and said the sentiment did himcredit, however big the mortgage might be.By the time Castro brought in his first surprise--a delicious soup--ajovial and friendly party was gathered around the oilcloth board. Eventhe paper napkins could not dampen the joy of the occasion, or detractfrom the exquisite flavor of the broth.The boyish Dolph bewailed anon the absence of his "Nell," who lovedCastro's cookery above everything else, while every endeavor of Mr.Runyon to explain the self-starter on his new car was so adroitly headedoff by his fellow ranchers that the poor fellow was in despair. The"lunch" turned out to be a seven course dinner and each courseintroduced such an enticing and unusual dish that every member of theparty became an audacious gormandizer. None of the girls--exceptLouise--had ever tasted such concoctions before, or might even guesswhat many of them were composed of; but all agreed with Patsy when sheenergetically asserted that "Castro out-cheffed both Rector and Sherry.""If only he would have tablecloths and napkins, and decent rugs upon thefloor," added dainty Louise."Oh, that would ruin the charm of the place," protested Uncle John."Don't suggest such a horror to Castro, Louise; at least until after wehave returned to New York.""I'll take you riding in my car," piped Runyon to Beth, who sat besidehim. "I don't have to crank it, you know; I just--""Have you sold your orange crop yet?" asked Arthur."Lemons, sir!" said the other reproachfully. And the laugh that followedagain prevented his explaining the self-starter.The porch was shady and cool when they emerged from the feast room andArthur Weldon, as host, proposed they sit on the benches with theircoffee and cigars and have a social chat. But both Runyon and Hahnprotested this delay. They suggested, instead, that all ride back to ElCajon and play with the baby, and so earnest were they in this desirethat the proud young father and mother had not the grace to refuse.Both men had their cars at the village garage and an hour later theprocession started. Beth riding beside "Bul Run" and Patsy accompanyingthe jolly "Dolph.""We must stop and pick up Nell," said the latter, "for she'd be mad ashops if I went to see Toodlums without her.""I don't wonder," replied Patsy. "Isn't my niece a dear baby?""Never was one born like her. She's the only woman I ever knew whorefuses to talk.""She crows, though.""To signify she agrees with everyone on every question; and her angelicsmile is so genuine and constant that it gets to your heart in spite ofall resistance.""And she's so soft and mushy, as it were," continued Patsyenthusiastically; "but I suppose she'll outgrow that, in time."Mrs. Helen Hahn, when the three automobiles drew up before her younghusband's handsome residence, promptly agreed to join Rudolph in a visitto the baby. She proved to be a retiring and rather shy young woman, butshe was very beautiful and her personality was most attractive. BothPatsy and Beth were delighted to find that Louise had so charming aneighbor, of nearly her own age.Rudolph would not permit the party to proceed further until all hadpartaken of a refreshing glass of lemonade, and as this entailed more orless delay the sun was getting low as they traversed the five miles toEl Cajon, traveling slowly that they might enjoy the exquisite tintingsof the sky. Runyon, who was a bachelor, lived a few miles the other sideof Arthur's ranch. All three ranches had at one time been part of theSpanish grant to the Cristovals, and while Arthur now possessed the oldmansion, the greatest number of acres had been acquired by Rudolph Hahn,who had preferred to build for himself and his bride a more modernresidence.CHAPTER VII--GONE!The Weldons and their guests were greeted at their door by a maid, forthere were no men among the house servants, and as Louise ushered theparty into the living room she said to the girl:"Ask Miss Travers to bring the baby here."The maid departed and was gone so long that Louise started out to seewhy her order was not obeyed. She met the woman coming back with apuzzled face."Mees Traver not here, senora," she said."Then tell Inez to fetch the baby.""Inez not here, senora," returned the woman."Indeed! Then where is baby?""Mees Jane not here, senora."Louise rushed to the nursery, followed by Arthur, whose quick ears hadoverheard the statement. The young mother bent over the crib, the coversof which were thrown back as if the infant had been quickly caughtup--perhaps from a sound sleep."Good gracious!" cried Louise, despairingly; "she's gone--my baby'sgone!""Gone?" echoed Arthur, in a distracted tone. "What does it mean, Louise?Where can she be?"A gentle hand was laid on his shoulder and Uncle John, who had followedthem to the room, said soothingly:"Don't get excited, my boy; there's nothing to worry about. Your twonurses have probably taken little Jane out for a ride.""At this time of night?" exclaimed Louise. "Impossible!""It is merely twilight; they may have been delayed," replied Mr.Merrick."But the air grows chill at this hour, and--""And there is the baby-cab!" added Arthur, pointing to a corner.Louise and her husband looked into one another's eyes and their facesgrew rigid and white. Uncle John, noting their terror, spoke again."This is absurd," said he. "Two competent nurses, both devoted to littleJane, would not allow the baby to come to harm, I assure you.""Where is she, then?" demanded Arthur."Hello; what's up?" called Patsy Doyle, entering the room with Beth tosee what was keeping them from their guests."Baby's gone!" wailed Louise, falling into a chair promptly to indulgein a flood of tears."Gone? Nonsense," said Beth, gazing into the empty cradle. Then she putdown her hand and felt of the bedding. It had no warmth. Evidently thechild had been removed long ago."Before we give way to hysterics," advised Uncle John, striving toappear calm, "let us investigate this matter sensibly. Babies don'tdisappear mysteriously, in these days, I assure you.""Question the servants," suggested Patsy."That's the idea," squeaked a high tenor voice, and there in the dimlight stood big Bulwer Runyon, and with him little Rudolph and his wifeHelen, all exhibiting astonished and disturbed countenances."I--I can't see any reason for worry, Louise, dear," remarked Mrs. Hahn,in a voice that trembled with agitation. "Not a soul on earth would harmthat precious Jane."Arthur turned to the maid."Send all the servants here," he commanded. "Every one of them, mindyou!"Presently they congregated in the roomy nursery, which had now beenbrilliantly lighted. There were five women--some old and some young, butall Mexicans--and a little withered Chinaman named Sing Fing, whose agewas uncertain and whose yellow face seemed incapable of expression.Uncle John, assisted at times by Rudolph and Arthur, did thequestioning. Marcia had seen Miss Travers leave the house, alone, atabout two o'clock, as if for a walk. She did not notice which way thenurse went nor whether she returned. Perhaps she wore a cloak; Marciacould not tell. The day was warm; doubtless Miss Travers had no wraps atall. A hat? Oh, no. She would have noticed a hat.The only one who recollected seeing Inez was Eulalia, a chambermaid. Shehad observed Inez sitting in the court, in a despondent attitude, atabout half past two. Yes; it might have been a little earlier; it washard to remember. None of the house servants paid much attention to thenurses. They had their own duties to perform.But the baby had not been seen at all; not since Inez had brought her infrom her ride at noon. Then it was Miss Travers who had taken the childfrom the cab and with her disappeared into the nursery.This report did not prove reassuring. Sing Fing announced that MissTravers had prepared the baby's liquid food in the kitchen at half pasttwelve, but that neither she nor Inez had joined the other servants atluncheon. This last was not an unusual occurrence, it seemed, but takenin connection with the other circumstances it impressed the questionersas suspicious."Perhaps they are all at the Mexican quarters," exclaimed Patsy, withsudden inspiration.Arthur and Rudolph immediately volunteered to investigate the quartersand started off on a run."It's all right, you know," consolingly panted Dolph, on the way. "Thebaby and her nurses can't be lost, strayed or stolen, so don't worry.""Common sense urges me to agree with you," returned Arthur, "but there'scertainly something mysterious about the disappearance.""It won't be mysterious when we discover the reason, you know."The men were all at work in the olive groves, but some of the women werein the huts and old Bella listened to Arthur's frantic questions withblank amazement, as did the others who hastily congregated."Thees morn," said Bella, "Inez bring Mees Jane here for littletime--not long time. Then she takes her 'way again.""While Inez here," said another woman, "I see that other--the Americannurse--behind hedge, yonder, watching us.""How you know that?" demanded Bella sharply, as she turned to thespeaker."I know because she is stranger," was the calm reply. "Inez see her,too, an' that ees why Inez hurry away.""Which way did she go?" asked Arthur, and they all pointed to the paththat led to the house."It doesn't matter," suggested Dolph. "We know that both the nurses werein the house afterward. The main point is that the baby is not here."As they started to return they came face to face with old Miguel. Theshadow was deep beneath the trees but there was no mistaking theMexican's snow-white hair."Have you seen baby?" demanded Weldon eagerly.Miguel stared at them. He came nearer, putting his face close to hismaster's, and stared harder."Mees Jane? You ask for Mees Jane?""Yes. Tell me, quick, do you know where she is?""Mees Jane mus' be at house," said Miguel, passing a hand over his eyesas if bewildered."She is not," said Rudolph. "She is gone, and both her nurses are gone.""Inez gone?" repeated the old man, stupidly. "Ah; then she have carriedaway Mees Jane! I was 'fraid of that.""Carried her away! Why should she do that?" asked Arthur impatiently."She jealous of New York girl--Mees Travers. Inez say she kill MeesTravers; but I tell her no. I say better not. But Inez hate thees girlfor taking Mees Jane away from her. Inez love baby, Meest Weld; too muchto be safe nurse."While Arthur tried to comprehend this strange information Rudolph saidto Miguel:"Then you haven't seen the baby? You don't know where she is?"The old Mexican gave him a keen look."No, Meest Hahn.""You don't know where Inez has gone?""No, Meest Hahn.""Nor the other nurse--the American girl?""No, Meest Hahn."They hurried back to the house, leaving the old Mexican standingmotionless beside the path.CHAPTER VIII--VERY MYSTERIOUSArthur found Louise developing hysteria, while Beth, Patsy and HelenHahn were working over her and striving to comfort her. Uncle John, themajor and big Runyon stood gazing helplessly at the dolorous scene."Well? Well?" cried Mr. Merrick, as Weldon and young Hahn entered. "Anynews?"Arthur shook his head and went to his wife, bending over to kiss herforehead."Be brave, dear!" he whispered.It needed but this tender admonition to send the young mother into newparoxysms."See here; we're wasting time," protested Runyon, his voice reachinghigh C in his excitement. "Something must be done!""Of course," cried Patsy, turning from Louise. "We're a lot of ninnies.Let us think what is best to do and map out a logical program."The others looked at her appealingly, glad to have some one assumecommand but feeling themselves personally unequal to the task ofthinking logically."First," said the girl, firmly, "let us face the facts. Baby Jane hasmysteriously disappeared, and with her the two nurses.""Not necessarily with her," objected Rudolph. "Let us say the two nurseshave also disappeared. Now, the question is, why?"A shriek from Louise emphasised the query."Don't let's bother with the 'why?'" retorted Patsy. "We don't care why.The vital question is 'where?' All we want, just now, is to find babyand get her back home again to her loving friends. She can't have beengone more than four hours--or five, at the most. Therefore she isn't sofar away that an automobile can't overtake her.""But she can't walk, you know," squeaked Runyon. "Baby didn't go alone;some one took her.""True enough," observed Uncle John. "You're wrong, Patsy. We must try todecide who took baby, and why. Then we might undertake the search with achance of success.""Whoever took baby went on foot," persisted Miss Doyle. "The only fourautomobiles in the neighborhood are now standing in our driveway and inthe garage. This is a country of great distances, and no matter in whatdirection the baby has been taken an auto is sure to overhaul her, if wedon't waste valuable time in getting started.""That's right!" cried Arthur, turning from Louise. "The theory agreeswith old Miguel's suspicion about Inez, and--""What suspicion?" cried half a dozen."Never mind that," said Rudolph, with a hasty glance toward Louise;"let's be off, and talk afterward.""We men must decide on our routes and all take the road at once,"proposed Rudolph."It's pitch dark," said Runyon."Would you like to wait until morning?" demanded Rudolph, sarcastically."No; I want to rescue that baby," said the big fellow."Then take the north road, as far as Tungar's ranch. Stop at every houseto inquire. When you get to Tungar's, come back by the McMillan road.That's a sixty mile jaunt, and it will cover the north and northwest.Take Mr. Merrick with you. Now, then, off you go!"Runyon nodded and left the room, followed gladly by Uncle John, wholonged to be doing something that would count. The others soon heard theroar of the motor car as it started away on its quest.Then it was arranged for Arthur to drive back to Escondido to makeinquiries and to watch the departure of the evening train, the only oneto pass the station since baby had been missing. He was to carry MajorDoyle with him and return by another route. Hahn promised to cover withhis own car the only other two roads that remained to be searched, andhe figured that they would all return to the house within two or threehours, when--if still there was no news--they might plan a furtherpursuit of the fugitive baby.Helen Hahn had promised not to leave Louise until baby was found, andbefore starting Arthur assisted his wife to her room, where he left herweeping dismally one moment and screaming for little Jane the next.Sing Fing had sent a maid to announce dinner, but no one paid anyattention to the summons.After the three automobiles had departed, Patsy and Beth remained in thenursery and left Helen and a maid with Louise. Once alone, Miss Doylesaid to her cousin:"Having started them upon the search, Beth, you and I must take up thatpertinent suggestion made by Mr. Hahn and face the important question:'Why?'""I'm dying to be of some use, dear," responded Beth in a disconsolatetone, "but I fear we two girls are quite helpless. How can _we_ tell whythe baby has been stolen?""Has she been stolen?" inquired Patsy. "We mustn't take even that forgranted. Let us be sensible and try to marshal our wits. Here's thefact: baby's gone. Here's the problem: why?""We don't know," said Beth. "No one knows.""Of course some one knows. Little Jane, as our friend Bul Run remindedus, can't walk. If she went away, she was carried. By whom? And why? Andwhere?""Dear me!" cried Beth, despairingly; "if we knew all that, we could findbaby.""Exactly. So let's try to acquire the knowledge."She went into Mildred's room and made an examination of its contents.The place seemed in its usual order, but many of Mildred's trinkets andpersonal possessions were scattered around."Her absence wasn't premeditated," decided Patsy. "Her white sweater isgone, but that is all. This fact, however, may prove that she expectedto be out after dark. It is always chilly in this country after sundownand doubtless Mildred knew that.""Why, she used to live here!" cried Beth. "Of course she knew."Patsy sat down and looked at her cousin attentively."That is news to me," she said in a tone that indicated she had made adiscovery. "Do you mean that Mildred once lived in this neighborhood?""Yes; very near here. She told me she had known this old house wellyears ago, when she was a girl. She used to visit it in company with herfather, a friend of old Senor Cristoval.""Huh!" exclaimed Patsy. "That's queer, Why didn't she tell us this, whenwe first proposed bringing her out here?""I don't know. I remember she was overjoyed when I first suggested hercoming, but I supposed that was because she had at last found a payingjob.""When did she tell you of this?""Just lately.""What else did she say?""Nothing more. I asked if she had any relatives or friends living herenow, but she did not reply.""Beth, I'm astonished!" asserted Patsy, with a grave face. "Thiscomplicates matters.""I don't see why.""Because, if Mildred knows this neighborhood, and wanted to steal babyand secrete her, she could take little Jane to her unknown friends andwe could never discover her hiding-place.""Why should Mildred Travers wish to steal baby?" asked Beth."For a reward--a ransom. She knows that Arthur Weldon is rich, and thatUncle John is richer, and she also knows that dear little Toodlums isthe pride of all our hearts. If she demands a fortune for the return ofbaby, we will pay it at once.""And prosecute her abductor, Mildred, afterward," said Beth. "No, Patsy;I don't believe she's that sort of a girl, at all.""We know nothing of her history. She is secretive and reserved.Mildred's cold, hard eyes condemn her as one liable to do anything. Andthis was such an easy way for her to make a fortune."Beth was about to protest this severe judgment, but on second thoughtremained silent. Appearances were certainly against Mildred Travers andBeth saw no reason to champion her, although she confessed to herselfthat she had liked the girl and been interested in helping her."We have still Inez to consider," said she. "What has become of theMexican girl?""We are coming to her presently," replied Patsy. "Let us finish withMildred first. A girl who has evidently had a past, which she guardsjealously. A poor girl, whose profession scarcely earned herbread-and-butter before we engaged her. A girl whose eyes repelfriendship; who has little to lose by kidnapping Jane in the attempt tosecure a fortune. She was fond of baby; I could see that myself; so shewon't injure our darling but will take good care of her until we pay themoney, when Toodlums will be restored to us, smiling and crowing asusual. Beth, if this reasoning is correct, we needn't worry. Byto-morrow morning Arthur will receive the demand for ransom, and he willlose no time in satisfying Mildred's cupidity.""Very good reasoning," said Beth; "but I don't believe a word of it.""I hope it is true," said Patsy, "for otherwise we are facing a stillworse proposition.""Inez?""Yes. Inez isn't clever; she doesn't care for money; she would not stealJane for a ransom. But the Mexican girl worships baby in every fibre ofher being. She would die for baby; she--" lowering her voice to awhisper, "she would _kill_ anyone for baby."Beth shivered involuntarily as Patsy uttered this horrible assertion."You mean--""Now, let us look at this matter calmly. Inez has, from the first,resented the employment of Mildred as chief nurse. She has hated Mildredwith a deadly hatred and brooded over her fancied wrongs until she haslost all sense of reason. She feared that in the end baby Jane would betaken away from her, and this thought she could not bear. Therefore shehas stolen baby and carried her away, so as to have the precious onealways in her keeping.""And Mildred?" asked Beth."Well, in regard to Mildred, there are two conjectures to consider. Shemay have discovered that Inez had stolen baby and is now following inpursuit. Or--""Or what, dear?" as imaginative Patsy hesitated, appalled by her ownmental suggestion."Or in a fit of anger Inez murdered Mildred and hid her body. Then, toescape the penalty of her crime, she ran away and took baby with her.Either one of these suppositions would account for the absence of bothnurses."Beth looked at her cousin in amazement."I think," said she, "you'd better go and get something to eat; or a cupof tea, at least. This excitement is--is--making you daffy, Patsy dear.""Pah! Food would disgust me. And I'm not crazy, Beth. Dreadful thingshappen in this world, at times, and Louise has a queer lot of peoplearound her. Think a moment. Our baby has disappeared. Her two nurses,neither of whom are especially trustworthy, have also disappeared.There's a reason, Beth, and you may be sure it's not any common,ordinary reason, either. I'm trying to be logical in my deductions andto face the facts sensibly.""Inez would be as careful of baby's welfare as would Mildred.""I realize that. If I thought for a moment that baby was in any peril Iwould go distracted, and scream louder than poor Louise is doing. Do youhear her? Isn't it awful?""Let us tell Louise these things," said Beth, rising from her chair."What you call your 'deductions' are terribly tragic, Patsy, but theyreassure us about baby. Shall we go to Louise?""I think it will be better," decided Patsy, and they left the nurseryand stepped out into the court. At the far end of the open space stoodhuddled a group of men, all of whom bore lanterns. Patsy advanced to thegroup and discovered them to be the Mexican laborers from the quarters.Old Miguel advanced a pace and bowed."We search for baby--for Mees Jane--eh?" he said, questioningly, as ifdesiring instructions."That is a happy thought, Miguel," replied the girl. "The others arescouring the roads in their motor cars, but the country needs searching,too--away from the roads, in the fields and orchards. Send your men outat once, and scatter them in all directions."Miguel turned and rapidly harangued his followers in the Spanish patois.One by one they turned and vanished into the night. Only the old manremained."Ever'bod' love Mees Jane," he said simply. "They all want to find her,an' ask me to let 'em go. Good. They will search well."In spite of the words there was a tone of indifference in Miguel's voicethat attracted the girl's notice. He did not seem in the least worriedor agitated, nor did he appear to attach much importance to the search.Yet Patsy knew the aged foreman was one of "Mees Jane's" most devotedadmirers."Where do you think baby is?" she asked abruptly."Quien sabe?" he answered, and then in English, "who knows?""Be sensible, Miguel! No one would hurt the dear child, I'm sure."His dark features wrinkled in an engaging smile."No one would hurt Mees Jane. I believe it.""But some one has carried her away."He shrugged his shoulders."Some time she come back," said he."Now, see here, Miguel; you know more than anyone else about thisaffair. Tell me the truth."He raised his brows, shaking his head."I know nothing," said he. "I not worry much; but I know nothing.""Then you suspect."The old man regarded her curiously; almost suspiciously, Patsy thought."What ees suspec'?" he asked. "It ees nothing. To suspec' ees not toknow. Not to know ees--nothing at all."The girl stamped her foot impatiently, for she caught Beth smiling ather."What is Inez to you, Miguel?" she demanded.Again he smiled the childlike, engaging smile."She ees to me nothing," said he. "Inez is Mexican, but her family eesnot my family. Not all Mexicans ees--re--spec'--ble. Once I know Inez'father. He drink too much wheesky, an' the wheesky make heem bad.""But you like Inez?""She ees good to Mees Jane; but--she have bad tempers."Patsy thought a moment."Did you know Mildred Travers when she used to live near here?" sheasked.Old Miguel started and took a step forward."Where she leeve, when she ees here?" he asked eagerly."I don't know. Have you ever seen her?""No. She do not come to our quarters.""Wait a minute," said Patsy, and ran up to her room, leaving Beth toconfront the ranchero and to study him with her dark, clear eyes. Butshe said nothing until her cousin returned and thrust a small kodakprint into Miguel's hand."That is Mildred Travers," said Patsy.Miguel held up his lantern while he examined the picture and both girlsobserved that his hand trembled. For a long time he remained bent overthe print--an unnecessarily long time, indeed--but when he raised hishead his face was impassive as a mask."I do not know Mees Travers," was all he said as he handed back thepicture. "Now I go an' hunt for Mees Jane," he quickly added.They watched him turn and noticed that his steps, as he left the court,were tottering and feeble."He lied," said Beth, softly."I am sure of it," agreed Patsy; "but that does not enlighten themystery any. I'm sorry we brought Mildred to this place. There's justone thing you can bank on, Beth: that in some way or other Mildred isresponsible for the disappearance of our precious Toodlums."CHAPTER IX--A FRUITLESS SEARCHMeantime, Uncle John and big Runyon were bowling along the north road,the lights gleaming from the powerful lanterns of the car andilluminating every object on either side of the way. The road seemeddeserted and it was fully twenty minutes before they came to the firstranch house beyond that owned by Runyon himself. Here Mr. Merrick gotout to make inquiries.A tall, slovenly dressed woman answered his ring. She carried an oillamp in her hand and eyed her late visitor severely."Have you seen a woman with a baby pass this way to-day--thisafternoon?" asked the little man."Yes," was the reply; "she stopped here for supper."Uncle John's heart gave a great bound."Have they gone on?" he inquired."Yes; an hour ago.""Which way, ma'am?"She nodded toward the north and Mr. Merrick hastily turned away. Then,pausing as a thought occurred to him, he asked:"Was the--the baby--quite well, ma'am?""Seemed so," was the gruff answer and she slammed the door."Of course she was provoked," mused Uncle John, as he hurried back tothe car. "I forgot to thank her. Never mind; we'll stop on our wayback.""Well?" demanded Runyon."We've got 'em!" was the joyful response. "They stopped here for supperand went on an hour ago. Drive ahead, and keep a sharp lookout.""Who stopped here?" asked the other, as he started the car."Why the woman with the baby, of course.""Which woman?""Which one? Oh, I didn't bother to ask. It doesn't matter, does it,whether it's Mildred or Inez. It's the baby we want."Runyon drove on a while in silence."Did she describe little Jane accurately?" he asked, in his high, pipingtenor."She didn't describe her at all," said Uncle John, provoked by suchinsistence. "There isn't likely to be more than one baby missing, inthis lonely section of the country."The big rancher made no reply. Both were keenly eyeing every object thatfell under the light of the lamps. Presently they caught sight of asmall white house half hidden by a grove of tall eucalyptus. There wasno driveway, but the car was stopped at the nearest point and Uncle Johngot out. To his surprise Runyon followed him, saying:"Two heads are better than one, sir.""What do you mean by that, sir?" asked Mr. Merrick, sternly. "Don't youthink I'm competent to ask a question?""You don't ask enough questions," returned Runyon frankly. "I'm not surewe're on the right trail.""Well, I am," declared Uncle John, stiffly.It took then some time to arouse the inhabitants of the house, whoseemed to have retired for the night, although it was still early.Finally a woman thrust her head from an upper window."What's wanted?" she inquired in querulous tones."Have you seen a woman with a baby pass by here?" called Uncle John."No.""Thank you, ma'am; sorry to have troubled you," said the little man, butin a very disappointed voice."Hold on a minute!" cried Runyon, as the woman was closing the window."They told us at the last house that a woman with a baby stopped therefor supper.""Oh; they did, eh?""Yes; and she came in this direction; so we thought you might have seenher.""Well, I might, if I'd looked in the glass," she said with grim humor."I'm the woman.""Oh, indeed!" cried Uncle John, feeling bewildered. "And the baby?""Safe asleep, if your yellin' don't wake him.""Then--it's--_your_ baby!""I'll swear to that. What do you want, anyhow?""We're looking for a lost baby," piped Bul Run."Then you'll hev to look somewhere else. I've walked all the way totown, an' back to-day, an' I'm dead tired. Are you goin' away, or not?"They went away. Neither spoke as they again entered the car and startedit upon the quest. Five minutes passed; ten; fifteen. Then Mr. Runyonsaid in a higher key than usual:"There's nothing on a car as handy as a self-starter. All you have to dois--""Oh, shut up!" growled Uncle John.They drove more slowly, after this, and maintained a sharp watch; butboth men had abandoned all hope of discovering the missing baby on thisroute. When they reached Tungar's Ranch they crossed over to a lessfrequented road known as McMillan's which would lead them back to ElCajon, but by a roundabout, devious route.The nearer they drew to the ranch the greater vigilance they displayed,but the road was deserted and no one at any of the ranch houses had seenor heard anything of a stray baby. As they turned into Arthur's drivewaythey overtook Rudolph Hahn, just returning from a quest as fruitless astheir own. It was now half past nine o'clock.Arthur Weldon and Major Doyle had both realized that the route awardedthem was the most promising of all. It was scarcely conceivable thatanyone who had stolen baby Jane would carry her farther into theunsettled districts. Far more likely that Toodlums' abductor would makefor the nearest town or the railway station."If we know which one of the girls had taken baby," said Arthur, "wecould figure better on what she would likely do. Inez would try to reachsome Mexican settlement where she had friends, while Mildred mightattempt to get into Los Angeles or San Diego, where she could safelyhide.""I can't believe either of them would steal little Jane," declared themajor. "They are too fond of her for that.""But the baby has been stolen, nevertheless," returned Arthur; "we can'tget around that fact. And one of the nurses did it""Why?""Because the nurses disappeared with the baby.""Then perhaps they've entered into a conspiracy, and both are equallyguilty in the abduction," suggested the major."No; their hatred of one another would prevent any conspiracy betweenthem. Only one stole the baby away, I'm quite sure.""Then where's the other nurse?"Arthur made no reply, but the major expected none. It was one of thosemysteries that baffle the imagination. By and by Major Doyle made anattempt to answer his question himself, unconsciously using the sameargument that his daughter Patsy had during her conversation with Beth."For the sake of argument, and to try to get somewhere near the truth,"said he, "let us concede that, after we had gone to town, the two nursesquarreled. That would not be surprising; I've been expecting an openrupture between them. Following the quarrel, what happened? In view ofthe results, as we find them, two deductions are open to us. One girlmay have made away with the other, in a fit of unreasoning rage, andthen taken baby and run away to escape the consequences of her crime. Ifthat conclusion is true, Inez is the more likely to be the criminal andit is Mildred's dead body we shall find in a clump of bushes or hiddenin the cellar. That Mexican girl has a fierce temper; I've seen her eyesgleam like those of a wildcat as she watched Mildred kiss and cuddlelittle Jane. And she was so madly devoted to baby that she'd sooner diethan part with her. Mildred is different; she's more civilized.""To me, her eyes seem more treacherous than those of Inez," declaredArthur, who had liked the little Mexican nurse because she had been sofond of Toodlums. "They never meet your gaze frankly, those eyes, butseem always trying to cover some dark secret of which the girl isashamed.""Nevertheless, I maintain that she is the more civilized of the two,"insisted the major. "She has a calmer, more deliberate nature. Shewouldn't be likely to hurt Inez, while Inez would enjoy murderingMildred.""What's the other hypothesis?" asked Arthur."The more sensible one, by odds. After the quarrel, Inez grabs up babyand runs away, determined to escape from her hated rival and carry Janebeyond her influence. Soon after, Mildred discovers the flight of theMexican and, impelled by her duty to you and her desire to circumventInez, rushes away in full chase, forgetting to leave any word. Perhapsshe thought she would be able to return with baby before we arrived backfrom town; but Inez has led her a merry chase, which Mildred stubbornlyrefuses to abandon. I'm an old man, Arthur, and have seen a good deal oflife, so mark my words: when the truth of this affair is known, it willbe something like the story I've just outlined. I believe I've hit thenail on the head, and I'll admit it's bad enough, even that way.""Then," said Arthur, more hopefully, "we may find Mildred and baby athome, when we return.""Yes; and we may not. If they are home, Arthur, there are plenty thereto look after the wee darling, and Louise will be comforted. On theother hand, if they don't return, it must be our business to find them.I can imagine Mildred, fagged out, in some far-away corner, resolving tostay the night and return to the ranch in the morning."They remembered to have passed along this road before, that afternoon,on their way home from town. At that time they had seen no sign of thenurses or the baby. But to make assurance doubly sure Arthur stopped atevery house to make inquiries and the road was inspected carefully. Whenthey reached town they first visited the local police station and thenthe telephone office. Here they arranged to have every ranch housewithin a wide radius called and questioned in regard to the missingbaby. Arthur also tried to get his own house, but the wire was still outof service.Then to the telegraph office, where messages were sent to all theneighboring towns, giving descriptions of the missing baby and thenurses and offering a liberal reward for any news of their whereabouts.By this time it was necessary to go to the depot, as the evening trainwas soon due. While they awaited its arrival Arthur and the majorclosely scanned every member of the group gathered at the station.Weldon even managed to have the train held, on its arrival, until he hadpassed through all the cars and assured himself that neither Mildred,Inez or baby Jane was aboard.That automobile would have carried two despairing men away from thelittle town had it not been for the ray of hope suggested by the majorthat they would find baby safe at home on their arrival. However, thatno chance might be neglected, they took another route, as originallyarranged, and patiently continued their vain inquiries all the way backto the ranch. As they entered the driveway at El Cajon the clock in thebrilliantly lighted hall of the mansion was striking ten.Arthur rushed in and was met by Patsy."Any news?" they both cried eagerly; and then their expectant facesfell."How is Louise?" faltered Arthur."More quiet, now," answered the girl. "She became so violent, after youleft, that we were all frightened; so Mrs. Hahn jumped into your littlecar and drove home, where she telephoned for the doctor. He happened tobe at the Wilson place, so she caught him there and he came directlyhere. He is upstairs yet, but he gave Louise a quieting potion and Ithink she is now asleep."Arthur started to mount the stairs; then hesitated."Are the boys back yet?" he asked."Yes; they are now out in the grounds, helping the Mexicans search theshrubbery."The young man shuddered."I--I think I'll join them," he decided, and the major merely gave hisdaughter a solemn kiss and followed the bereaved father.At the back of the mansion the lights of the lanterns were twinklinglike fireflies, although the stars shone so brilliantly that all near-byobjects were easily distinguished. Arthur and the major joined the menand for two hours longer the search was continued--more because they allfelt they must be doing something, than through any hope of success.Finally, at midnight, the chief searchers met in a group near the house,and Rudolph said: "Let's go in and rest a bit, and have a smoke. I'mabout fagged out and, as a matter of fact, we've covered every inch ofthese grounds several times over."Arthur silently turned and led the way into the house, where Patsy, Bethand Helen Hahn, all three worn and haggard, met them in the hall."Louise?" asked Arthur."Sleeping quietly," replied Beth. "Marcia is sitting beside her.""Has Dr. Knox gone?""No; he's in the library, smoking. Eulalia is getting him something toeat, for it seems he missed his dinner.""Why, so did I!" trilled big Runyon, in his clearest tenor. "I've justremembered it.""You must all eat something," declared Patsy, "else you won't be fit tocontinue the search. Go to the library--all of you--and Beth and I willsee what we can find in the kitchen."CHAPTER X--CONJECTURES AND ABSURDITIESIn somber procession the men trailed up the stairs to the big library,where a dapper little man sat reading a book and puffing at a hugecigar. He looked up, as they entered, and nodded a head as guiltless ofhair as was that of Uncle John. But his face was fresh and chubby,despite his fifty years, and the merry twinkle in his gray eyes seemedout of place, at first thought, in this house of anxiety and distress."Ah, Weldon; what news of little Jane?" he cheerfully inquired."None, Doctor.""No trace at all?""None, whatever.""That's good," declared the doctor, removing the ash from his cigar."Good!""Of course. No news is good news. I'll wager my new touring-car that ourJane is sound asleep and dreaming of the angels, this very minute.""Has your new car a self-starter?" inquired Runyon anxiously, as ifabout to accept the wager."I wish I might share your belief, Doctor," said Arthur with a deepsigh. "It all seems a terrible mystery and I can think of no logicalexplanation to assure me of baby's safety.""Yes, it's a mystery," agreed Dr. Knox. "But I've just thought of asolution.""What is it?" cried half a dozen voices."Sit down and light up. I hope you all smoke? And you need refreshment,for you've been working under a strain.""Refreshments are coming presently," said Rudolph. "What's yoursolution, Doc?""The young ladies have been telling me every detail of thedisappearance, as well as the events leading up to it. Now, it seemsMildred Travers is an old resident of this section of California. Wasborn here, in fact."This was news to them all and the suggestion it conveyed caused them toregard Dr. Knox attentively."The old Travers Ranch is near San Feliz--about thirty miles south ofhere. I know that ranch by reputation, but I've never been there. Nowfor my solution. The Travers family, hearing that Mildred is at ElCajon, drive over here in their automobile and induce the girl to gohome with them. She can't leave baby, so she takes little Jane along,and also Inez to help care for her. There's the fact, in a nutshell.See? It's all as plain as a pikestaff."For a moment there was silence. Then big Runyon voiced the sentiment ofthe party in his high treble."You may be a good doctor," said he, "but you're a thunderin' baddetective.""If I could telephone to the Travers Ranch, I'd convince you," assertedthe doctor, unmoved by adverse criticism; "but your blamed old telephoneis out of order.""As for that," remarked Rudolph, taking a cigar from a box, "I've been avisitor at the Travers Ranch many times. Charlie Benton lives there.There hasn't been a Travers on the place since they sold it, ten ortwelve years ago.""Well," said the doctor, "I'm sorry to hear that. It was such a simplesolution that I thought it must be right.""It was, indeed, simple," admitted Runyon. "Ah! here comes food atlast."Patsy, Beth and Helen bore huge trays containing the principal dishes ofthe untasted dinner, supplemented with sandwiches and steaming coffee.This last the thoughtful Sing Fing had kept in readiness all theevening, knowing it would be required sooner or later.Neither Uncle John nor the major was loth to partake of the much-neededrefreshment. They even persuaded Arthur to take a cup of coffee. It wasnoticeable that now, whenever baby Jane was mentioned, they spoke hername in hushed whispers; yet no one could get away, for long, from theone enthralling subject of the little one's mysterious disappearance."What can we do now?" asked Arthur pleadingly. "I feel guilty to besitting here in comfort while my darling may be suffering privations,or--or--""Really, there is nothing more to be done, just now," said Patsy,interrupting him before he could mention any other harrowing fears. "Youhave all done everything that mortals could do, for to-night, and in themorning we will resume the search along other lines. In my opinion youall ought to get to bed and try to rest, for to-morrow there will be alot for you to do.""What?" asked Arthur helplessly."Well, I think you ought to telegraph for detectives. If ever a mysteryexisted, here is one, and only a clever detective could know how totackle such a problem.""Also," added Beth, "you ought to telegraph to every place inCalifornia, ordering the arrest of the fugitives.""I've done that already.""Can't anyone think of a _reason_ for the disappearance of these threepersons--the baby and her two nurses?" inquired Mrs. Hahn earnestly. "Itseems to me that if we knew what object they could have in disappearing,we would be able to guess where they've gone." Then the pretty littlewoman blushed at her temerity in making such a long speech. But thedoctor supported her."Now that," said he, "strikes me as a sensible proposition. Give us thereason, some of you who know."But no one knew a reason."Here are some facts, though," said Patsy. "Inez was baby's first nurse,and resented Mildred's coming. Somehow, I always get back to that factwhen I begin to conjecture. The two nurses hated each other--everybodyadmits that. Mildred hated mildly; Inez venomously.""Miguel told me that Inez has threatened to kill Mildred," said Arthur."And there is another thing: one of the women said Inez brought the babyto the quarters, at about noon, and while there they discovered Mildredwatching them from the shelter of a hedge. This incensed Inez and shehurried away to the house, followed stealthily by Mildred.""That," said Dolph, "was perhaps the beginning of the quarrel. We don'tknow what happened afterward, except that both were seen in the courtwith baby at about two o'clock.""Afterward," said Patsy, "one of the housemaids saw Inez go out--as iffor a walk. She may have returned. I think she did, for otherwise it wasMildred who carried the baby away. I can see no reason for her doingthat.""Of course Inez returned," declared Arthur, "for nothing would induceher to run away from us and leave her beloved baby. I believe the poorgirl would rather die than be separated for good from little Jane.You've no idea how passionately she worshiped the child.""All of which," the doctor stated, "indicates a tragedy rather than somefeminine whim--which last I much prefer as a solution. But if bothnurses were fond of little Jane--who is the finest baby I ever knew, bythe way--no quarrel or other escapade would permit them to injure thedear infant. Let us worry about the two girls, but not about littleJane."Such advice was impossible to follow, and doubtless the shrewd doctorknew it; but it was a comforting thought, nevertheless, and had alreadydone much to sustain the despairing father.No one seemed willing to adopt Patsy's suggestion that they go to bedand get some much needed rest, in preparation for the morrow. Arthurleft them for a time to visit Louise, but soon returned with word thatshe was quietly sleeping under the influence of the potion the doctorhad administered. The three girls--for Mrs. Hahn was only a girl--sathuddled in one corner, whispering at times and trying to cheer oneanother. The doctor read in his book. Rudolph smoked and lay back in hischair, gazing reflectively at the ceiling. Bul Run had his feet on asecond chair and soon fell into a doze, when he snored in such a highfalsetto that Arthur kicked his shins to abate the nuisance. The majorsat stiffly, gazing straight ahead, and Uncle John tramped up and downthe room untiringly. The baby had grown very dear to the hearts of theselast two men in the few days they had known her and her sudden lossrendered them inconsolable.The suspense was dreadful. Had it been day, they could have donesomething to further the search, but the night held them impotent andthey knew they must wear out the dreary hours as best they might.At one o'clock Patsy drew her father aside and prevailed upon him to goto his room and lie down."This tedious waiting is merely wearing you out," she said, "and fordear baby's sake you should be fresh and vigorous in the morning."That seemed to the major to be very sensible, especially as he felt theneed of rest, so he slipped away and went to the blue room, which waslocated in the old wing and just above the nursery.Then the girl approached Uncle John, but he would not listen to her. Hewas too nervous to rest, he insisted, and she realized that he spoketruly. Just as she abandoned the argument they were all startled by thesound of wheels rolling up the driveway and Arthur rushed to an openwindow and looked out.An automobile had just arrived."Who is it?" he called."Id's me, Meisteh Veldon--id's Peters, de constable," called a richvoice in strong German dialect. "I got your baby here, und der Mexicogirls to boots!""What!" they all shrieked, springing up to crowd around the window."Bring her in, Peters!" yelled Arthur, a great gladness in his voice,and now he was half running, half tumbling down the stairs in his hasteto reach the door, while the others trailed after him like the tail of acomet.As the door was thrown open Peters--a stout German--entered with abundle in his arms, followed by a weeping, angry Mexican woman who wasfat and forty and as unlike Inez as was possible.Even as Arthur's eyes fell on this poor creature his heart sank, and therevulsion of feeling was so severe that he tottered and almost fell.Runyon grabbed his arm and supported him while Peters fumbled with thewrappings of the baby."Do I gets me dot rewards--heh?" asked the constable, holding up a fatlittle Mexican baby, whose full black eyes regarded the groupwonderingly.The father turned away, heartsick."Give him some money and get rid of him," he moaned.Dolph took the constable in hand."You blooming idiot!" he exclaimed. "Why did you drag that poor womanhere?""Id iss a rewards for der Mexico girl unt a baby; dot iss what ef'rybodysay. How do I know id iss not Herr Veldon's baby?" demanded theindignant German. "Do his baby gots a sign on id, to say id iss de rightbaby, vot iss lost unt must be foundt? No, py jimminy! He yust say hehass a lost baby, unt a Mexico girl hass runned avay mit id. * * * So Ifinds me a Mexico girl unt a baby--unt here id iss!"Patsy took the baby, a good little thing, and placed it in its mother'sarms."Who are you, and where did this man find you?" the girl askedsympathetically.The woman first shook her head and then burst into a voluble stream ofSpanish, not a word of which could be understood."She cannot speak de Ingliss, like me, so I cannod tell if she iss deright Mexico vomans or nod," explained the constable. "Bud I brings hermit me, yust de same, unt id costs me four dollars to rendt me anautomobubbles.""Take her back," said Hahn, giving him a ten-dollar note; and then hegave the woman some money and kissed the baby, which smiled at himapprovingly.Beth ran to get some of the sandwiches for the woman, while Patsybrought milk for the baby and Uncle John offered the constable a cigar.Then the three were sent away and the automobile rolled back to town.CHAPTER XI--THE MAJOR ENCOUNTERS THE GHOSTAscending once more to the library the weary watchers resumed theirformer attitudes of waiting, as patiently as they might, for the comingof the day. Uncle John looked at his watch and found it was only alittle after two o'clock. The minutes seemed hours to-night.Suddenly a tremendous shriek rent the night, a shriek so wild andblood-curdling in its intensity that they sprang up and clung to eachother in horror. While they stood motionless and terror-stricken therecame a thump!--thump!--as of some heavy object tumbling down the threeor four steps leading from the hall to the corridor of the old SouthWing, and then the door burst open and Major Doyle--clothed inred-and-white striped pajamas--fairly fell into the library, rolledtwice over and came to a stop in a sitting position, from whence he letout another yell that would have shamed a Cherokee Indian and which sostartled big Runyon that he held a tenor note at high C for fully aminute--much like the whistle of a peanut roaster--the which wasintended for an expression of unqualified terror.Patsy was the first to recover and kneel beside the poor major, whoseeyes were literally bulging from their sockets."Oh, Dad--dear Dad!--what is it?" she cried.The major shuddered and clapped his hands to his eyes. Then he rockedback and forth, moaning dismally, while Patsy clung to his neck, sobbingand nearly distracted."Speak, Major!" commanded Arthur."A--a ghost!" was the wailing reply."A ghost!" echoed the amazed spectators."Did you _see_ it?" questioned Uncle John in a trembling voice, as hebent over his brother-in-law."See it?" shouted the major, removing his hands to glare angrily at Mr.Merrick. "How could I see anything in the dark? The room was black aspitch.""But you said a ghost.""Of course I said a ghost," retorted the major, querulously, as herubbed his bare ankle with one hand to soothe a bump. "You don't have to_see_ a ghost to know it's there, do you? And this ghost--Oh, Patsy,darling, I can't say it!--it's too horrible."Again a fit of shuddering seized him and he covered his eyes anew androcked his body back and forth while he maintained his seat upon thefloor. His legs were spread wide apart and he wiggled his big toesconvulsively.Beth asked with bated breath:"Did you _hear_ the ghost, then, Major?""Um! I heard it," he moaned. "And it's the end of all--the destroyer ofour hopes--the harbinger of despair!""Look here, Major," said Uncle John desperately, "be a man, and tell uswhat you mean.""It--it was baby--baby Jane!"Arthur sobbed and dropped his head upon the table. Rudolph groaned.Runyon swore softly, but with an accent that did not seem very wicked.Uncle John stared hard at the major."You're an ass," he said. "You've had a nightmare."The major could not bear such an aspersion, even under the tryingcircumstances. He scrambled to his feet, this time trembling withindignant anger, and roared:"I tell you I heard baby--baby Jane--and she was crying! Don't I know?Don't I know our baby's voice?"Arthur leaped to his feet, a resolute expression upon his face.Instantly they all turned and followed him from the room. Into the hall,up the steps and through the corridor of the South Wing they passed, andjust inside the major's room Rudolph struck a match and lighted a lampthat stood upon the table.The place was in wild disorder, for when the major leaped from the bedhe had dragged the coverings with him and they lay scattered upon thefloor. The chair in which he had placed his clothing had been overturnedand there was no question that his flight had been a precipitous rout.The casement of the window, set far back in the thick adobe wall, waswide open and the night breeze that came through it made the flame ofthe lamp flicker weirdly.Beth proved her courage by bolding crossing the room and closing thewindow, while the others stood huddled just inside the door. Back ofthem all was the white face of Major Doyle, a brave soldier who hadfaced the enemy unflinchingly in many a hard fought battle, but averitable poltroon in an imaginary ghostly presence.Scarcely daring to breathe, they stood in tense attitudes listening fora repetition of the baby's cry. Only an awesome, sustained silencerewarded them.The major's open watch upon the table ticked out theminutes--five--ten--fifteen. Then the doctor crept back to the libraryand quietly resumed his book. Presently Runyon joined him."Between you and me, Doc," said the big fellow, "I don't take much stockin ghosts.""Nor I," returned Dr. Knox. "Major Doyle is overwrought. His imaginationhas played him a trick."Rudolph Hahn entered and lighted a fresh cigar."Curious thing, wasn't it?" he said."No; mere hallucination," declared the doctor."I don't know about that," answered the boy. "Seems to me a ghost woulddo about as a person in life did. The child cried--poor little babyJane!--and the ghostly wail was heard in the one room in this house thatis haunted--the blue room. Perhaps there's something about theatmosphere of that room that enables those who have passed over to makethemselves heard by us who are still in the flesh."He was so earnest that the doctor glanced at him thoughtfully over thetop of his book."It's the dead of night, and you're agitated and unreasonable, Hahn. Inthe morning you'll be ashamed of your credulity."Dolph sat down without reply. His wife came in and sat beside him,taking his hand in hers. In another quarter of an hour back came UncleJohn, shivering with the chill of the corridor, and stood warminghimself before the grate fire."If the major heard the baby," he said reflectively, "it must be proofthat--that something--has happened to the little dear, and--and we mustface the worst.""Well, it was baby I heard," asserted the major, who, having hastilydonned his clothes, now made his reappearance in the library. "I waslying in a sort of dose when the cry first reached my ears. Then I satup and listened, and heard it again distinctly, as if little Jane wereonly two feet away. Then--then--""Then you tested your lungs and made your escape," added the doctordrily."I admit it, sir!" said Major Doyle, haughtily. "Had it been anyone elsewho encountered the experience--even a pill peddler--he would havefainted."In the blue room Patsy and Beth alone remained with Arthur Weldon. Not asound broke the stillness. When an hour had passed, Patsy said:"Won't you go away, Arthur? Beth and I will watch."He shook his head."You can do no good by staying in this awful place," pleaded the girl,speaking in a whisper."If she--if baby--should be heard again, I--I'd like to be here," hesaid pathetically.Patsy knew he was suffering and the fact aroused her to action."Father isn't a coward," she remarked, "and either he heard the cry, orhe dreamed it. In the latter case it amounts to nothing; but if Janereally cried out, that fact ought to give us an important clue."He started at this suggestion, which the girl had uttered withoutthought, merely to reassure him. Yet now she started herself, struck bythe peculiar significance of her random words."In what way, Patsy?" asked Beth, calmly.That was the spur she needed. She glanced around the room a moment andthen asked:"Who built this wing, Arthur?""Cristoval, I suppose. I've heard it was the original dwelling," hereplied. "The rest of the house was built at a much later date. Perhapstwo generations labored in constructing the place. I do not know; but itis not important.""Oh, yes it is!" cried Patsy with increasing ardor. "The rest of thehouse is like many other houses, but--these walls are six or eight feetin thickness.""Adobe," said Arthur carelessly. "They built strongly in the missiondays.""Yet these can't be solid blocks," persisted the girl, rising to walknervously back and forth before the walls. "There must be a space leftinside. And see! the major's bed stands close to the outer wall, whichis the thickest of all."He stared at her in amazement and then, realizing the meaning of herwords, sprang to his feet. Beth was equally amazed and looked at hercousin in wonder."Oh, Patsy!" she exclaimed, "the baby hasn't been lost at all.""Of course not," declared Patsy, her great eyes brilliant withinspiration. "_She's imprisoned!_"CHAPTER XII--ANOTHER DISAPPEARANCEFor a time the three stood regarding one another with startled eyes.Then Arthur gasped: "Great heaven! what fools we've been.""Come!" cried Patsy. "The nursery."They rushed down the corridors to the staircase and thence into thecourt. The door of the nursery stood ajar and Arthur first entered andlighted a lamp.The light fell full upon the face of a man seated in a low rocking chairand holding a half smoked cigarette in his mouth. He was fast asleep. Itwas old Miguel, the ranchero.Arthur shook his shoulder, savagely, and the man wakened and rubbed hiseyes. Then, seeing who had disturbed him, he quickly rose and made hischaracteristic low, sweeping bow."What are you doing here?" demanded Weldon, angry and suspicious."I am look for Mees Jane," returned the old man calmly."In your sleep? Come, get out of here.""Wait a minute, Arthur," said Beth, reading Miguel's face. "He knowssomething."Arthur looked at the man critically, reflecting that there must be areason for his presence in the nursery. Miguel had been fond of babyJane. Was he merely disconsolate over her loss, or--did he really "knowsomething"?"Miguel once told me," said Patsy, speaking slowly, "that he used tolive in this house, in Cristoval's time, and knows it thoroughly."The old man bowed."I theenk," said he, "perhaps we find Mees Jane here--not somewhereelse.""Why do you think that, Miguel?"It was Patsy who questioned him. He mused a bit before replying."The old senor--the father of my Senor Cristoval--was strange mans,"said he. "He make thees house a funny way. Come; I show you."He led the way to the little room adjoining, the one Inez had occupied.In one corner of the floor was a square hole, with steps leading down toa sort of blind pocket. Holding a lamp in one hand Miguel descended thesteps and pushed against a block of adobe that formed part of the outerwall. It swung inward, disclosing a cavity about four feet in width andfully six feet high. The interior could be plainly seen from the room,by stooping close to the floor. There were shelves in the cavity andupon one of them stood a jar of milk."Oh," cried Patsy, clasping her hands together. "I told you the wall washollow!"Arthur followed Miguel down the steps. He took the lamp and examined thelittle room. All the walls that formed it seemed solid.Miguel was holding the block that served as a door. He released hishold, when Arthur had again ascended, and the block swung back intoplace.As they returned to the nursery, Weldon asked:"Do you know of any other rooms in the wall, Miguel?"The man shook his head, uncertainly."I know there be other rooms in thees wall," said he, "for SenorCristoval have told me so. Hees father make the places to keep thingssafe from robbers--perhaps to hide from others, too. But where suchplaces are ees the secret of the Cristovals. The room I show you ees allI know about. I thought that was secret, too; but no; the New York nursetell Inez of that room, an' Inez she keep Mees Jane's milk there, to becool.""Mildred told of the room!" exclaimed Arthur in astonishment."Yes," said Beth, "she used to visit this house as a girl, whenCristoval lived here, and she must have known some of the secret rooms.""Ah, that ees what I theenk," agreed old Miguel. "There ees more room inthees wall; that I know. If thees Mildreed know one room, she may knowmore. So I theenk she and Inez have go into some room of the wall an'take Mees Jane with them. Some way, they cannot get out again.""Exactly!" cried Patsy triumphantly. "They are somewhere in that wall,imprisoned, and the major really heard the baby cry.""But--Miguel, Miguel!" pleaded Arthur, earnestly, "can't you rememberhow the wall opens? Think! Think carefully.""I do theenk, Meest Weld; I theenk till I go sleep, an' you find mehere.""Now, let's do some thinking ourselves," suggested Beth. "The openingthat leads into the wall must be from this very room. Miguel thinks so,too, and that's why he came here. Let us examine the wall."They undertook to do this, holding the lamps close to the adobe blocksand inspecting every crack. The cement used in joining the blocks hadcrumbled away at the outer edges in almost every instance, and it wasimpossible to tell if any block was removable or not. Miguel or Arthurpushed hard against every block in the room, from those nearest thefloor to those far above their heads; but not one yielded a hair'sbreadth."Suppose we go outside," said Patsy. "Perhaps there is some window, orgrating, that will give us a clue."So they took old Miguel's lantern and went into the garden where theycould view the outer side of the wall. A tangle of climbing vines grewagainst the wing, but there was no window or other opening on the firstfloor. Above, on the second floor, were two windows, one of whichadmitted light and air to the blue room."How about the other window?" asked Beth."That," said Arthur, "must be in an unused room at the end of thecorridor. We have never furnished it.""I think it might be well to examine that room," suggested Patsy.So they reentered the house and, followed by Miguel, ascended to thesecond floor. The door of the library was ajar and those seated there,seeing Arthur and the girls pass, came trooping out to ask what theywere doing.Patsy briefly explained the new theory they had conceived to account forthe disappearance of baby and the two nurses, and the idea was sostartling that all became eager to join in the investigation.They invaded the vacant room in a body, several of the men carryinglamps. It was in size and shape a duplicate of the blue room, with itsone window deeply embedded in the wall, the surface of the embrasurebeing covered with heavy redwood planks.From the fact that this room lay directly over the small one occupied byInez, in which was the wall cavity they had recently explored, theyconceived the idea that the wall here might also be hollow. Poundingupon it, however, had no effect in determining this, for kiln-bakedadobe is not resonant and it was impossible to discover from any surfaceindication whether there were eight feet of closely set blocks or less.Careful search for any sign of an opening proved futile.Finally old Miguel said:"Next room was room of Senor Cristoval. Eet was room hees father livein, too; the old senor who build thees part of house. If there ees wayto get in wall, from upstairs, it ees there.""To be sure," said practical Beth, catching at the suggestion; "it wasthere that Major Doyle heard the baby cry."So on they all trooped into the blue room, where the wall was likewisecarefully inspected. While this was being done Rudolph looked at hiswatch and found it was after four o'clock."It will soon be daylight," said he to his wife. "What a night it hasbeen! It seems a month since we arrived here and found Toodlums gone."Old Miguel had been silent and unobtrusive in the vacant room, but herehe was as eager in testing the wall as any one of them."You see, it's this way," Patsy was saying; "if the major could hearbaby cry, through this wall, those inside could hear us, if we called tothem. Who among us has the clearest, the most penetrating voice?""Suppose _I_ try?" squeaked Runyon, earnestly; but those who consideredthe remark at all merely gave him scornful looks."Let Rudolph call," said Helen. "I think his voice might penetrate thepyramids of Egypt."Rudolph went close to the wall and shouted:"Hello, there! Baby! I-nez!--eh--eh--what's the other girl's name?""Mildred," said Beth."Mil-dred!" shouted Dolph; "Mil-dred!"He paused between each name, which he roared so loudly that he nearlydeafened those in the room, and everyone listened intently for aresponse.No answer."Perhaps they're asleep--worn out," said Uncle John. No one now seemedto doubt that the missing ones were imprisoned in the wall."Let Beth try," suggested Patsy.Beth had a clear, bell-like voice and from where she stood she calledout the names of Inez and Mildred. Then, in the stillness that followed,came a muffled cry in return--a cry that set all their nerves quiveringwith excitement.The mystery was solved at last.Beth repeated the call and now the answer was clearer, though stillindistinguishable. It was a voice, indeed, but whose voice they couldnot tell. But now, to their astonishment, came another sound, quiteclear and distinct--the wail of a baby voice."That settles it!" cried the major, triumphantly. "Was I right, orwrong? Was it a nightmare, or was I crazy?""Neither one, my dear sir," replied the doctor. "You declared you hearda ghost."Arthur was capering about in frantic joy."She's alive--my baby is alive!" he exclaimed."And probably she was sound asleep until your infernal yelling awakenedher," added the major."It wasn't _our_ yelling," said Uncle John, as delighted as even thefather could be; "it was the yelling of whoever is inside, there, thatfrightened the baby. Thank goodness the dear child could sleep duringall these weary hours, when we have been wearing our hearts out withanxiety.""We have yet cause for anxiety," declared Patsy, "for little Jane is notrescued yet, by any means, and presently the poor thing will become veryhungry and suffer for lack of food. We now know where baby is, but wecan't get at her; nor can Mildred or Inez find a way to get her out, orthey would have done so long ago.""Very true," agreed Helen Hahn, gravely. "Unless we can soon find a wayto get to them, all three will starve.""Why, we will pull down the wall!" cried Arthur."Dynamite it!" piped Bul Run."Be sensible!" counseled Uncle John sternly. "We are wasting precioustime. Miguel," turning to the ranchero, "get some of your men, withpicks and crowbars, and fetch them here quickly."The Mexican, who seemed bewildered by the discovery of the missing ones,although he had himself been the first to suspect where they were,started at once to obey this order. When he had gone, Patsy said:"Of course there is some easy way to get inside the wall, and to get outagain. Are we so stupid that none of us can penetrate the secret of thecunning Spaniard who built this place?"The challenge merely led them to regard one another with perplexedlooks."The fact that they're alive, after all these hours," said young Hahn,"is proof that they are supplied with air, and plenty of it. Then thereis an opening, somewhere or other.""Also," added Arthur, reflectively, "they are now opposite the secondstory rooms, when they must have entered the hollow wall at the firstfloor--perhaps from the nursery. That proves there is a stairway, or atleast a ladder, inside."At this moment a maid entered to say that Mrs. Weldon had awakened andwas calling hysterically for her baby. The doctor and Patsy at oncehurried to Louise's bedside, where the girl said:"Don't worry, dear. Little Jane has been found and is now in this veryhouse. So try to be quiet and go to sleep again.""Bring her to me; bring my darling at once!" begged Louise. But thedoctor now interfered."I don't wish to disturb baby at present," he said positively. "I thinkthe child is sleeping. You have been quite ill, Mrs. Weldon, and I mustinsist on your remaining quiet. Here; drink this, if you please."Louise, reassured, drank the potion and presently sank into anotherdoze. Dr. Knox remained beside her for a time but Patsy hurried back tothe blue room, eager to assist in the rescue of the prisoners."I'm afraid we're a stupid lot," Uncle John was saying as she entered;"or else the Spanish don was remarkably clever. We know the wall ishollow, and we know there's an opening, yet we can't solve the riddle."But here came Miguel and two strong men laden with steel bars, coldchisels and picks. For a time it was a quandary where to attack thewall, but Arthur finally chose the place just back of the bed and badethe men begin their work.The adobe proved harder than the hardest brick. Old Miguel knew that itmust be broken away bit by bit, for he was not unacquainted with thematerial, yet even under his skillful direction the work progressed withaggravating slowness.Daylight gradually crept into the room and rendered lamps unnecessary.The morning discovered a very disheveled, heavy-eyed group, not a singlemember of which was willing to retire from the fascinating scene ofrescue.Patsy went away to arouse Sing Fing and the servants, some of whom shefound had remained awake all night. In half an hour steaming hot coffeewas brought to the blue room and gratefully consumed by the wearywatchers. Breakfast of a substantial character would soon be ready andit was agreed that part of them should eat at one time while the othersremained to watch and to call them promptly if anything new developed.Arthur, too nervous to stand idly by, insisted on attacking the wall inanother place and Runyon assisted him, the latter's strength and musclewinning the admiration of all observers. He worked fiercely for a time,driving in the bar with stalwart blows and chipping off huge pieces ofadobe. Then, dripping with perspiration, he retired in favor of Arthurand rested by taking a seat in the window, where the cool morning aircould fan him.Patsy noticed Runyon in this position, his back against the redwoodplanks and his legs stretched out on the window-seat; but the work onthe wall drew her attention, as it did that of everyone else.Suddenly there was a crash and a loud report--followed by a shrillcry--and as every eye turned to the window they found that Runyon'sgreat body had absolutely disappeared. A rush was made to the window,but he did not seem to have fallen out. There was no sign of him at all.As if by magic, he was gone.While they stood amazed and half frightened by the marvel of the thing,Patsy recovered sufficiently to say:"Quick--let us get below! He must be under those rose vines, perhapscrushed and badly hurt."So they made for the door and flocked downstairs and out into thegarden. The vines seemed undisturbed. When the men pushed them asidethere was no evidence of the big rancher to be seen. In fact, they wereall convinced that Runyon had not fallen out of the window.Slowly they returned to the blue room, where the major exclaimed, withpositive emphasis:"This room is haunted. Don't talk to me! There's no other explanation.If we don't watch out, we'll all disappear--and that'll be the end ofus!"CHAPTER XIII--THE WAY IT HAPPENEDThrough consideration for the nerves and perhaps the credulity of thereader, it may be advisable at this juncture to go a little back in ourstory and relate the circumstances which led to the present perplexingcrisis. A great detective once said that "every mystery has a simplesolution"--meaning, of course, that the solution is simple when oncediscovered. Therefore, the puzzling mystery of the disappearance of babyJane and her two nurses, followed later by the vanishment of Mr. BulwerRunyon, was due to the one-time idiosyncracy of a certain SenorCristoval, happily deceased, rather than to any supernatural agency.Until now we have only known Mildred Travers, as she called herself, ina casual way. We know that she was considered a competent nurse and hadproved her capability in the care of baby Jane. Also we know that shewas silent and reserved and that her eyes bore an habitual expressionthat was hard and repellent. Without being able to find any especialfault with the girl, no one was attracted toward her--always exceptingthe baby, who could not be expected to show discrimination at her tenderage.A little of Mildred's former history had escaped her, but not enough tojudge her by. She had once lived in Southern California, near this veryplace. She had visited this house frequently with her father, when asmall child, and old Senor Cristoval had confided to her some of thesecrets of the mansion. That was all. What had become of friends andfamily, how she went to New York and studied nursing, or what mightaccount for that hard look in her eyes, no one now acquainted with herknew.The Mexican girl, Inez, was nearly as peculiar and unaccountable asMildred. There was no mystery about her, however, except that she was socapable and intelligent, considering her antecedents. Inez' people livedin a small town in another part of the county and the girl was one of anumerous brood of children whose parents were indolent, dissipated andsteeped in ignorance. When fourteen years old she had left home to workfor some of the neighboring ranchers, never staying in one place longbut generally liked by her employers. The woman who had recommended Inezto Mrs. Weldon said she was bright and willing and more intelligent thanmost Mexicans of her class, but that she possessed a violent temper.Louise had seen little evidence of that temper, however, for Inez fromthe first loved her new mistress and idolized the baby. It was onlyafter Mildred came to supplant her, as she thought, that the girldeveloped an unreasoning, passionate hatred for the other nurse and wasjealous of every attention Mildred lavished upon the little one.The baby was impartial. She laughed and held out her chubby fists toeither nurse, perhaps realizing that both were kind to her. It was thisthat made Inez so furious and caused Mildred to disdain the Mexicangirl. The two were at sword's points from the first, although after alittle Mildred made an attempt to conciliate Inez, knowing that theuntutored Mexican was by nature irresponsible and jealous, but withalloving and generous.Inez did not respond to these advances, but as the days passed shebecame less sullen when in the presence of Mildred, and at times, whenbusied over her duties, so far forgot her animosity as to converse withher in her old careless, unaffected way. Only Mildred was able to notethis slight change, and it encouraged her to believe she might win Inez'confidence in the end. Inez herself did not realize that she had changedtoward the "witch-woman," and when brooding over her fancied wrongshated Mildred as cordially as ever.On the day when the Weldons and their guests rode into town, the twonurses had indulged in a longer and more friendly conversation thanusual. It began by Mildred's chiding the Mexican for taking baby to thequarters unknown to her, as she had been obliged to follow to see whathad become of the child. Inez retorted by accusing Mildred of spyingupon her. Their return to the house was anything but friendly, and Inezflatly refused to obey such instructions as Mildred gave her for thecare of baby. She even walked out of the court in a temper and was gonefor an hour. Then she stole in, a little ashamed of her revolt, butstill defiant and rebellious.They were in the nursery and Mildred pretended not to notice herassistant's mood."I have prepared two bottles of baby's food," said she. "Please placeone in the hollow of the wall, in your room, to keep cool until we needit.""I won't!" said Inez."Why not?" asked Mildred quietly."Because you are witch-woman," cried the Mexican; "because you use badmagic to make hollow in wall; because you try to make baby witch-woman,like yourself, by keeping her milk in the witch-place;because--because--I _hate_ you!" she concluded with a passionate stampof her foot.Mildred looked upon the girl pityingly as she crossed herself again andagain as if in defiance of the supposed witchcraft. The poor girl soughtby this method to ward off any evil charm Mildred might attempt inretaliation, and the action nettled the trained nurse because the unjustaccusation was so sincerely made.She slowly rose and taking the bottle of milk carried it herself to thehollow in the wall and placed it upon a shelf. Then, returning, shestood before the petulant, crouching Mexican and said gently:"Were I truly a witch, Inez, I would not be working as a nurse--just asyou are. Nor do I know any magic, more than you yourself know.""Then how you know about that hole in the wall?" demanded Inez."I wish you would let me explain that. Indeed, I think a good talktogether will do us both good. Take this chair beside me, and try tobelieve in my good will. I do not hate you, Inez. I wish you did nothate me."Inez slowly rose from the floor and seated herself in the chair, turningit so that she could eye Mildred's face as she spoke."When I was a girl," continued Mildred, "I often came to this house tovisit. Sometimes I stayed here for several days, while my father talkedwith his old friend, old Senor Cristoval.""That is a lie," asserted Inez. "I have ask Miguel, who is here fortyyears, an' was house servant for Senor Cristoval. Miguel say there is noSenor Travers who is friend of Senor Cristoval. No Senor Travers didever come to this house for visit. What you say to that, Witch-Woman?"Mildred flushed and seemed embarrassed. Then she answered calmly:"I think Miguel speaks truly, for my father did not bear the name ofTravers. He was called by another name.""Then why do you call yourself Travers?" retorted the other.Mildred hesitated."I did not like my old name," she said, "and so I changed it. But thisis a secret I have told you, Inez, and you must not tell anyone of it."Inez nodded, looking at the other curiously. This confession had arousedher sympathy, for the first time, for her fellow nurse. The fact thatthere was a secret between them dissolved to an extent her antipathy forMildred, and it might be a bond to eventually draw them nearer together.With more tolerance than she had yet shown she asked:"Did Senor Cristoval show you the secrets of this house?""Yes. I was a little girl and he was good to me. I am not a witch-woman,Inez. Oh, if I were, I would witch a little happiness into my life!" sheadded miserably.This burst of rebellious longing interested Inez even more than thesecret. She could understand such a protest against fate."At first," continued Mildred, reverting to her former cold speech,while the hard look, which for an instant had given way to a flash ofsentiment, again crept into her eyes, "I thought I had forgotten thequeer recesses and secret rooms built by the elder Cristoval; but now Iam beginning to remember them. In the days when this wing was built, thecountry was wild and lawless. Robbers often visited a house in broaddaylight and took away all that was of value; so the firstCristoval--the father of the one I knew--made the secret place to hidehis treasure in, and even to hide himself and his family if the thievesthreatened them.""Is the treasure there now?" asked Inez eagerly.Mildred frowned, as if the question displeased her."Of course not. That was long ago. When I was a girl they no longerneeded the rooms in the wall as a hiding-place from thieves; but theykept them secret, just the same. I think I am the only person SenorCristoval ever told. He did it to please me, I suppose, because I was achild."Inez was much impressed. She began to regard Mildred more amicably. Ifshe were not a witch-woman, she reflected, there was no reason to fearher. The Mexican girl thought deeply on what she had heard, during thenext half hour. She watched Mildred put the baby to sleep and then takeup a book to read as she sat beside the crib. Inez went out into thedeserted court and squatting beside the fountain pondered upon thefascinating mysteries of the old house.She crept back, presently, and reentered the nursery where Mildred wassitting."Tell me," she began, in a friendly and familiar way that was new in herrelations with the other girl, "are there indeed rooms hidden in thesewalls--big enough for people to hide in?"Mildred smiled and laid down her book. Inez in this mood was worthcultivating, if she hoped to win her confidence. It would be far easierto get on in her new situation if Inez would learn to like her.Another thing influenced her: a reflection that had not been absent fromher mind since the Weldons departed for the day and had left herpractically in charge of the house. She had come to this house for apurpose. Could that purpose be best accomplished to-day, or at somelater period?"I believe," she answered musingly, "that this wall back of us is hollowand contains several rooms, which may be entered at various secretplaces--if one knows where the places are.""They cannot be very big rooms," said Inez in a hushed, awed voice, asshe glanced at the wall."No; they must be narrow. But they are quite long and high--some ofthem--and there are stairs leading from one floor to another, just likethe big stairs in the hall."Inez stared at her."How you know that?" she inquired."Why, I've seen the rooms," was the reply. "Let me think a moment."During the pause she scrutinized the Mexican girl closely, wondering ifit would be advisable to take her into her confidence. Then shecontinued, speaking slowly:"I'm almost sure it was in this very room that one of the secretentrances was built. It was not a nursery when I was here before, youknow; it was Senor Cristoval's office, where he kept his books and hismoney-boxes."She rose, as she spoke, and looked uncertainly up and down the wall.Then, with a nod of satisfaction, she quickly walked to the east cornerand counted four blocks of adobe, starting from the floor. The fourthline of blocks she followed to the third one, and placed her hand uponit."I think I am right, so far," she said. "This is the door to the secretrooms, but the key that unlocks it is somewhere in the floor. Turn backthe rug, please, Inez."The girl obeyed, her brown fingers trembling with excitement. The floorwas of adobe blocks similar to those which formed the wall, but smallerin size. Mildred regarded them reflectively and then placed her foot onthe edge of the second block directly in a line with the place where herhand rested. The pressure of her foot made the block tip slightly, andobserving this she pressed hard with her hand against the inner edge ofthe upper block.The result seemed magical. Three seemingly solid blocks of the wallswung slowly outward, disclosing a dimly lighted recess beyond.Mildred stepped in, stooping her head slightly because the opening wasso small. Inez followed her, nervously seizing the other girl's hand forsupport. The light seemed to come from some place far above and as theireyes grew accustomed to it they could discern a passage about three feetin width and fourteen feet long, which occupied the center of the wall.At the right, a flight of steps led upward, and to their left the placewas occupied by some chairs and stools. Against the walls were severalnarrow shelves, easily reached by one standing upright."Why, they have left the place furnished, just as it was when SenorCristoval first showed it to me," said Mildred. "The mattings andupholstery must be ready to fall to pieces, by this time; but you see,Inez, I was right about the secret rooms."Just then little Jane wakened with a lusty cry."See to the baby," said Mildred quickly, and the Mexican girlreluctantly turned away to obey.Mildred remained in the recess, thoughtfully eyeing the various antiqueobjects which had been allowed to remain there, some of which were ofreal value. She reflected that the last Cristoval had doubtless passedaway without disclosing the secret of the wall to anyone, and hisexecutors, in selling the mansion, had been quite unaware that anythingwas hidden in the adobe wall. Without doubt the property might now bejustly claimed by the new owner, Arthur Weldon, and this thought madeMildred flush with eager resolve to take full advantage of her presentopportunity. For here was the consummation of her hopes; here was therealization of the important plan which had brought her to SouthernCalifornia and to this house.Inez had caught the baby from its cradle and, holding a bottle of freshmilk-food to its lips to comfort it, again advanced through the opening.Mildred had stepped a few paces along the passage and Inez, the baby inher arms, started to join her.At that moment she heard a sound in the court, as of some oneapproaching, and to avoid letting others know of this fascinating secretthe girl thoughtlessly grasped the adobe door with her free hand andswung it shut behind her.It closed with a sharp "click!" and Mildred, hearing the sound, turnedwith a low cry of fear."Great heavens, what have you done?" she exclaimed in tense tones andbrushing the Mexican aside she threw her whole weight against the wall.It did not yield a hair's breadth.Inez, with terror in her eyes, stared at her companion."Is it lock?" she whispered.Mildred pushed again, straining every muscle. Then she bent and examinedthe wall. It was easy to see, from this side, where the series of threeblocks were firmly joined together. Also the butts of three huge ironhinges protruded slightly into the passage. There could be no mistake.The closing of the door had made them prisoners.CHAPTER XIV--PRISONERS OF THE WALLMildred silently turned and regarded her companion. Her eyes were nothard and cold now. They were glowing with anxiety and terror."Cannot we get out?" demanded Inez.Mildred shook her head."Not the way we came in," she replied. "I remember now that Cristovalwarned me never to close the door behind me; but I forgot to tell youthat, so you are not to blame."Inez looked down at baby, who had again fallen asleep, snuggled close toher breast. Her fear at this time was not for herself. It was dreadfulto think of the danger she had placed the darling baby in--the child shewould have died rather than injure.Mildred saw the look and read its anguish. Her own cheeks blanched for amoment, but there was an inherent quality of courage in this girl thatforbade her to despair. Speaking as much to herself as to Inez she said:"We were able to open this adobe door only by pressing downward on ablock of the floor outside, which released a catch which is securelyhidden in the lower edge of the opening--where I cannot reach it. So,unless some one knew the secret and could press that block in thenursery, the door cannot again be opened."Inez staggered to a stool and sat down."Must we stay here always?" she pleaded piteously."I think not. I am _sure_ not, Inez. They will find some way to breakthrough the wall and rescue us.""But no one knows we are here!""True. Well, I believe there are other ways to get out of this hollowwall, besides the opening we came through. I am quite certain I was toldthat Senor Cristoval could enter from his room, on the second floor; andperhaps there are other entrances. Stay here and keep baby quiet and Iwill make an examination of our prison."As she started to ascend the stairs Inez arose to follow her."Let me come, too," she begged. "I am afraid to stay alone.""Very well; but try not to waken baby."The stairs were built the full width of the space, completely blockingit at that end. At the top they stepped into another narrow room, whichwas not over the lower one but extended farther along the wall. It was,indeed, extraordinary to note how comfortable the genius of that ancientCristoval who had planned the place, had made this originallycomfortless corridor-like room, for room it was despite its narrowconfines.The ceiling was high, and light and air were admitted by gratings placedat the top, letting onto the bastion of the roof, where they could notbe observed by those below. The gratings were covered by projectionsthat kept out the rain and dew. On the floor was a thick carpet,somewhat musty and dusty now, and at the far end was placed a couch withsilken curtains. This was still piled high with bedding and pillows andwas boxed in, the full width of the passage, with elaborately carvedwoods. Upholstered seats, rather narrow but long and quite comfortable,were built against the wall and supported by richly carved frames ofebony and panels of cherry. There were pictures upon the walls; oilpaintings of quite good quality. A sort of wall-cabinet and some smallbrackets supported numerous hooks, ornaments, and several boxes of metaland sandalwood, which last Mildred eyed expectantly but had now noleisure to examine.The girls were both awed by this discovery, for Mildred had never beenpermitted to mount the stair to this room when Senor Cristoval hadallowed her to peep into the lower passage. The intense silence lent aweirdness to the place that was at first quite disconcerting. A gray ratscuttled along the carpet, causing them to jump and cry out, and thendisappeared somewhere beneath the couch. Inez, trembling with nervousfear, hugged the baby with one arm and clutched Mildred's arm with theother, and then they sat together on one of the cushioned seats andtried to collect their thoughts.Mildred reflected that no person had entered this place for at leasteight years, for it was eight years since the last Cristoval had passedto his fathers. Yet, aside from the dust, everything seemed in anexcellent state of preservation. The secret room had been fitted up byits builder more than fifty years before and much of the furnishingsmust have been placed there then."My first task," she said to Inez, "must be to make a thoroughexamination of this place. Since there is no one to help us, we musthelp ourselves, and any weakness at this time would be fatal."With this she rose and carefully began to inspect the walls. The heavycarpet was merely laid flat on the adobe floor and she raised it hereand there and tested the blocks to see if any was movable. There was nomeans of reaching the ceiling but an opening there was out of thequestion.Near the center of the room, on the inner wall and about two feet fromthe floor, was a square of wood firmly embedded in the adobe. This, shethought, might possibly be a means of egress or ingress, so she testedit eagerly, pressing not only upon the wood but on all the blocks ofadobe near it, in the endeavor to discover a hidden spring or some otherclever mechanical contrivance which would prove the "open sesame." Butthe panel and the wall defied all her efforts and she finally concludedit was solid planking placed there to support the wall or to allowcupboards or shelves to be nailed against it.Another similar place, where a huge panel of plank was set in the wall,she found at the very end of the passage, beyond the couch, and was onlyable to reach it by mounting the bed and climbing over the bedding. Thispanel was also immovable and she decided it could not be an openingbecause the wall beyond it was doubtless solid. This space beyond thebed, where the room ended, contained a huge chest of quaintly carvedoak. As she saw the chest her heart gave a great bound and forgettingfor the moment her desire to escape she reached down and raised the lid.Then her face fell. Despite the dim light in this corner, which she hadgrown somewhat accustomed to in investigating the panel, she could seethat the chest contained merely papers, with which it was half filled.This might be the accumulated correspondence of the Cristovals, of nouse to any but themselves, and losing all interest in the chest sheclosed the lid and again crossed over the high bed to Inez.The result of this investigation, which had consumed a full hour, sothorough had she been, convinced Mildred that there was no immediate wayfor them to leave their prison. So she began to plan how they might keepthemselves and baby Jane comfortable until they were rescued.The bottle of milk, which Inez still held in her hand, was a preparedfood of a highly nourishing quality. The contents of the bottle hadscarcely been touched by baby when, rousing from her sleep, she had beentaken up and comforted by Inez until slumber again overtook her. UsuallyJane consumed two bottles of such food each day, and another during eachnight.Mildred looked at her watch and found it was nearly four o'clock. With alittle care in its administration the baby's food might last untilmorning, but not longer. For themselves, they must be content withoutfood, unless--She decided to search the boxes and shelves while daylight lasted, andbade Inez place the sleeping infant on one of the cushioned seats andsupport it with a pillow brought from the couch. Then the two girlsbegan to take down the boxes from the shelves and explore theircontents. Some were of tin and square in shape; others were round, likecanisters.In one they found some tea and in another a small quantity of loafsugar. There was no other food, except a few cracker crumbs in thebottom of a tin.Leaving Inez to sit beside baby, Mildred next visited the room below.Here the light was more dim, but she discovered a box of waxcandles--two or three dozen in number--and a quantity of matches in asmall iron safe. She tried these last and after several attempts managedto light one of them and with it light a candle. The matches were atleast eight years old, but there was not a particle of dampness in theplace and so they had not greatly deteriorated.A broad slab of redwood, hinged and fastened to the wall byturn-buttons, was made to let down and serve as a table. When Mildredlowered it she found that it covered a small recess or cupboard in thewall, in which stood three tin cans. One was labeled "tomatoes" and theother two "corn."Here was food, of a certain sort; but the cans were tightly soldered andthere seemed to be no tool that might be used to open them. Although theplace was littered with many small articles there was nothing else amongthem that especially interested the girl. Two sabers were crossed uponthe wall over the table, and below them hung a big revolver. A panamahat, yellowed with age, hung upon a peg. A broom made of palm fiberstood in a corner.Mildred returned to the upper floor, carrying with her several candlesand some matches."Inez," said she, "we must make the best of our misfortune. I hope thatbefore long we shall be rescued, both on baby's account and on our own.There are some tins of tomatoes and corn down stairs, but nothing thatbaby could eat. However, we shall suffer more from thirst than fromhunger, as there is not a drop of water in the place."Inez had been thinking during Mildred's absence."Can we not scream, and so make them hear us?" she asked."I have thought of that and we will make the attempt. The servants areall in the opposite wing, so it is useless to try to arouse theirattention; but when Mr. and Mrs. Weldon return, with the others, theymay be able to hear us and so rescue us.""When will they be back?" Inez inquired.Mildred considered this question."I heard them say they were to stay in town for luncheon, but Mrs.Weldon remarked that they would be back soon after. I think, Inez, theymay already have returned and even now may be searching for us. Stayhere, and I will go below, so as not to disturb baby, and call."She went again down the steep stairs to the lower room where, standingnear to the place where they had come through the wall, she uttered asharp, shrill cry, such as she thought might penetrate the thick blocksof adobe. The sound echoed with startling reverberations through thesecret chambers and baby Jane, wakening in affright, set up a series ofsuch lusty screams that it seemed as if they ought to be heard a mileaway.Inez did her best to soothe and quiet the baby, but succeeded only whenshe had given little Jane the precious bottle of milk.CHAPTER XV--MILDRED CONFIDES IN INEZMildred had hastened upstairs in alarm at the pandemonium of sound herown cry had aroused, for the baby's screams also gave back a thousandechoes and these sent the little one into fresh paroxysms of terror."This won't do, at all," she said anxiously, when baby Jane had sobbedherself into a doze, with the bottle to comfort her. "If we scream againit will frighten the child to death.""Perhaps they have heard us," suggested Inez, rocking Jane to and fro inher arms."Perhaps. Let us hope so," sighed Mildred.Presently she went over to the couch and examined the condition of thebedding. The linen sheets had withstood the years very well, but theblankets and coverlets had a musty smell. She spread some of these outto air and then went back and sat beside Inez.Together they watched the light fade until the narrow space was full ofcreeping shadows. The air began to grow chilly, so Mildred arranged thecouch and they laid baby Jane upon it, covered her snugly with a blanketand drew the silk curtain to shield her eyes from the glare of thecandles. They had lighted several of these, placing them in heavy brasscandlesticks which they found ranged upon the shelves. Each of the girlstook a blanket and folded it about her and then they sat down togetherto await their fate as patiently as they could.They both realized, by this time, that their dilemma was likely to proveserious. Not a sound from within the house penetrated the adobe walls oftheir prison. They were unable to tell if their whereabout had yet beendiscovered."I think it best to wait until morning before we make any further effortto be heard," said Mildred. "Our cries would only distract baby and ifour screams have not already attracted notice it would be folly tocontinue them. Anyway, let us try to be brave and patient. Something mayhappen to save us, before morning."Even by the flickering candle-light the place was awesome and uncanny.Inez crept closer to Mildred's side, quite forgetting her formeraversion for her companion. Because the sound of their own voices lentthem a certain degree of courage they conversed together in low tones,talking on any subject that occurred to them.At one time Inez broke an oppressive stillness by saying:"Tell me about yourself--when you were a girl. And why did you leavehere to go to New York?"Mildred regarded the girl musingly. She felt a strong temptation tospeak, to confide in some one."Will you keep my secret, Inez?" she asked."Yes; of course. I do not tell all I know," was the reply."If you told, it would drive me away from here," said Mildred.Inez gave a start, remembering that a few hours ago she would have doneanything to drive Mildred away. But, somehow, she had come to regard hercompanion in misfortune more favorably. A bond of sympathy had beenestablished between them by this terrible experience they were nowundergoing. Whatever their fate might be, Inez could not hate Mildredafter this."I do not wish to drive you away," she asserted in a positive voice. "Iwill not tell your secret."For a time Mildred mused silently, as if considering how to begin."My mother died when I was a baby," said she. "She was a Travers andlived on a ranch near here.""I know the Travers Ranch," said Inez quickly. "But no Travers have livethere in a long time.""My mother lived there," continued Mildred, "until she married myfather. Indeed, she lived there several years after, for I was born inthe ranch house. But my mother's people--the Traverses--did not like myfather, and when mother died he took me away to a house in Escondido. Ithink he was sent away, and the family sold the ranch and went back toEngland, where they had originally come from."In Escondido an old Mexican woman kept house for us. She was namedIzbel.""Ah!" cried Inez, nodding her head wisely; "I know." Then, as Mildredlooked at her questioningly, she added: "Go on.""My father was away from home much of the time. He traveled, andsometimes he took me with him into Mexico, and we went as far south asMatanzas, and once to Mexico City. That was when I was quite small, andI do not remember much about it. But often we came here to visit SenorCristoval, with whom he had some secret business. I have seen him givemy father big bags of golden coins, although everyone said he was amiser. I remember that at one time my father hid in this very wall for aday and a night, and officers came to the house and searched it, sayingthey were looking for a smuggler and had traced him here."But Senor Cristoval laughed at them and told them to examine the housethoroughly. This they did, and went away satisfied. Afterward my fathercame out of the wall and took me across the country to San Bernardino,where we stayed at a friend's house for several days. Finally SenorCristoval came there to visit us and I heard him tell my father it wouldnot be safe for him to return home and advised him to go far away. Healso gave my father much money, and one curious thing which he said tohim I never forgot. 'I will keep your fortune safely until you need it,'was his remark. 'I will hide it where no one will ever find it, any morethan they could find you.'""Ah! then he hid your father's fortune in this place?" cried Inezeagerly. Then her face fell. "But, no," she added. "We have look, andthere is no fortune here."Mildred sighed and continued her tale."After this Senor Cristoval shook my father's hand, and kissed me--forhe was always fond of me--and went away. I never saw him again. Myfather and I traveled to New York and as I was then eleven years of ageI became much troubled over our exile and begged to be told why it wasnot safe for us to stay in California. He explained to me that he hadpurchased laces and other goods in Mexico and brought them into theUnited States secretly, without paying the duty which the robbinggovernment officials imposed. For that he said he was liable to bearrested and put in prison, and if I ever allowed the secret to escapeme I would be the means of ruining him. I was a very sensitive child,and the importance of this great secret weighed upon me heavily. Myfather declared he had done no wrong, but I knew that the officers ofthe law were constantly searching for him and it so crushed me anddestroyed my happiness that at twelve years of age I was as nervous, assuspicious and evasive as any old woman could be."She paused and gave a little shudder. Said Inez, who had listenedintently:"I know now who you are. Your name is Mildred Leighton.""You know that!" cried Mildred, amazed."Of course I know that, when I know your father was the great smugglerthat the officers never could catch. I am told many stories aboutLeighton the smuggler, and old Izbel, who kept his house, is my aunt.Old Izbel say Senor Cristoval give Leighton the money to buy with, andLeighton give Senor Cristoval, who love money so much, half of all hemake. But no one could ever prove that. Leighton was very clever man. Noone could ever catch him."Inez spoke admiringly, as if Mildred's father was a hero and Mildred hadgained added prestige by being his daughter. But the other girl frownedand continued her story."In New York," she said, "we lived in a boarding house and I was sent toschool. My father was not kind to me any more. He grew cross and gloomyand often would say if I told his secret he would kill me. I did nottell; I kept the secret safe locked in my heart and suffered agonies ofapprehension for his sake, for I still loved him fondly. He now bought alittle ship and began to make sea voyages to and from Cuba. He would notlet me go with him and he only swore when I tried to get him to give upthe wicked and dangerous life he was leading. Often he denouncedCristoval, who had in his possession valuable goods and money belongingto my father but would not give them up because he knew my father darednot go to California to get them."For years father continued to smuggle without being suspected. Then onemorning I received a note asking me to come to the prison to see him.They had caught him at last and seized his ship, and he said there hadbeen a fight in which several of the government agents had been shot,and one killed. My father did not shoot, he told me, but they wouldblame him for everything."He stayed in the prison for a month, and every day I went to see him.Then came the trial and he was sentenced to prison for life. They--theyproved that he ordered his men to shoot," she added, lowering her headas if ashamed."Well, that was right," maintained Inez, cheerfully. "If they try toarrest him, Leighton was right to shoot.""No, Inez, he was very wrong," replied Mildred sadly. "I would never beallowed to see my father after he was taken away, so they let us talkfor the last time. He told me they had taken away all his money and hehad nothing to give me, but that if I could manage to get to Californiaold Senor Cristoval owed him much money and--and other things, andperhaps he would give it to me, although he had refused to give it to myfather. Afterward they took him away to Sing Sing prison, and that wasthe last I ever saw of him, for a year later he died."I do not suppose, Inez, any girl was ever left with such a heritage ofshame and trouble. You think me hard and cold; but can you blame me?Always I think some one will discover my secret, that they will say I amthe daughter of Leighton the smuggler and point the finger of shame atme."I was a friendless girl with no money. The people at the boarding housewould not let me remain and I took my little bundle and wandered outinto the street in search of home and employment. It was then that akind lady, a Mrs. Runyon, had pity on me and put me into a school fornurses. I was fifteen years old and big and strong for my age. Atseventeen I was nursing in a charity hospital, but my father's disgracehad made me an outcast and prevented my obtaining situations with goodfamilies. Mrs. Runyon tried to help me but my story was too well known.I changed my name from Leighton to Travers, but even that did not bringme better luck."For two years longer I worked for a bare pittance, and then suddenly aray of sunshine appeared. Miss De Graf came to the hospital where I wascaring for an injured child and offered me a position with her cousinout here in California, where I had known the happiest days of my life.More than that, I found to my joy that I was coming directly to the oldCristoval house, for although Senor Cristoval was long since dead--as Ihad found out by writing him--I remembered the secret rooms and hoped Imight find at least a part of my father's fortune still hidden there."Well," she added after a pause, "these are the rooms, and there isnothing of value left in them; this is the old Cristoval home, where myfather was forced to hide from the law; this is the country where theofficers hounded the hated smuggler like a dog and finally drove himaway. And here is the girl, Inez, who has passed through all thesescenes and to-day finds nothing in life worth living for."Inez took her hand, shyly but tenderly."Meeldred," she said softly, "perhaps your life will end here. It willbe strange, will it not, if that is so? But if we cannot get out, itmakes a good story to die in this old den of the smuggler, your father.I will die with you; but I do not mind--much. But Mees Jane--"She broke off with a wail of anguish and Mildred said hastily:"Inez, we must save the baby! And, if we do, we shall also saveourselves. Come; you, at least, have much to live for. You will care forthe baby after I have gone far away, and you will be glad, then, thatthe hated Mildred is out of your life.""But I do not hate you any more!" cried the Mexican girl protestingly."I like you now, Meeldred. We will be friends, an' we will be happytogether, if--if--""If what, Inez?""If we live to get out of this wall."CHAPTER XVI--AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVALAs the night advanced the two girls continued to talk, in low andsubdued voices because of their anxiety and growing fears. They kept thecandles trimmed, for the light lent them courage. They were not hungry,although they had eaten nothing since noon, but they were beginning tosuffer from thirst.The baby wakened with shrill screams and the only way to quiet her wasto give her the bottle, which was now less than a third full. Mildredwas in a quandary whether to withhold the remainder of the food fromlittle Jane, so as to prolong her life as much as possible, or to allowthe baby to eat what she desired, as long as any of the food remained.She finally decided on the latter course, hoping the morning would bringsome one to their rescue.After the little one was again hushed in slumber and cuddled in warmblankets on a seat beside them, the two imprisoned girls renewed theirdesultory conversation. They realized it must be long after midnight butMildred avoided looking at her watch because that made the minutes dragso slowly.Finally a dull sound from the other side of the wall reached their ears.It seemed that some one was pounding upon the adobe. Both girls sprangto their feet in excitement, their heads bent to listen. The poundingwas not repeated but a voice was heard--a far-away voice--as of onecalling.Mildred answered the cry, at the top of her lungs, and immediately Inezfollowed with a shrill scream that roused a thousand echoes in thehidden passage. And now Toodlums joined the chorus, startled from hersleep and terrified by the riot of sound.They tried to listen, but the baby's cries prevented anything else frombeing heard, so they devoted themselves to quieting little Jane. It tooksome time to do this, for the sobbing infant was thoroughly frightened,but finally Inez succeeded in comforting her and the bottle of preciousmilk was sacrificed to put baby to sleep again.By this time the sounds on the other side of the wall had ceased; butthe girls were now full of eager hope, believing they had succeeded inletting their friends know they were imprisoned in the wall.Within the hour more dull pounding began and this continued so regularlythat Mildred told Inez the rescuers were surely trying to break throughthe adobe. They listened alertly to each blow and for a time forgot boththirst and fatigue in the excitement of the moment. Daybreak was near,for already a gray light was creeping in through the gratings overhead.Suddenly a crash like a thunder-clap resounded from the end of thepassage. From the gloomy recess behind the couch a man's form appeared,struck the bed, was rebounded by the springs into the air, turned acomplete somersault and landed on the floor of the passage in a sittingposition, facing the two startled nurses.He did not seem to be hurt, but was evidently bewildered. He glared inamazement at the girls and they glared in amazement at him. Then,slowly, he turned his eyes to view his surroundings and blinked stupidlyat the candles, the antique carved furniture, the baby bundled upon acushioned seat and finally rested his eyes again upon the faces of thenurses."Why, it is Senor Bul-Run!" cried Inez, clapping her hands with joy. "Hehave come to save us.""Pardon me," said the man, in a rather quavering falsetto, "I'm not surewhether I've come to save you or to share your peril. Where am I,please?""It is the hollow of the wall, sir," replied Mildred, who had never seenthe big fellow before. "It is the secret apartment constructed by SenorCristoval, who built this house.""Well," said he, slowly getting upon his feet and with another curiousglance around, "I can't say that I consider it a desirable place ofresidence. Certainly it's no place for our precious Toodlums," and hebent over the sleeping babe and tenderly kissed its forehead. Then,straightening up, he said in as determined a tone as his high voicewould permit: "We must find a way to get out of here!""Can't you get out the same way you got in?" asked Mildred.He looked at her in perplexed astonishment."How did I get in?" he inquired."Don't you know?""I've no idea. I was sitting in the window of the blue room, resting,when there was a bang, whirligig, fireworks--and here I am, youruninvited guest.""The blue room!" cried Mildred."Yes. Did you happen to notice my arrival? I don't mean its lack ofdignity, but the direction I came from?""You came from somewhere behind that bed. I saw you strike the mattressand--and bound up again.""To be sure. I remember bounding up again. I--I didn't care to stop, yousee. I was anxious to--to--see if baby Jane was all right."Mildred could not repress a smile, while Inez giggled openly."However," continued the big man, good-humoredly, "the direction affordsus a clew. Pardon my absence for a moment while I investigate."He took one of the candles, cautiously made his way over the couch andstood upon the oak chest at the end of the narrow chamber. Here he wasable to examine the heavy planking set in the adobe, through which hehad doubtless made his appearance but which now appeared as solid andimmovable as the wall itself.Runyon's first act was to pass the light of the candle carefully overevery joint and edge, with the idea of discovering a spring or hinge.But no such thing seemed to exist. Then he took out his big jackknifeand began prying. When a blade snapped he opened another, only to breakit in his vain twisting and jabbing. Finally he threw the now uselessknife from him and began pounding with his fists upon the planking, atthe same time shouting with the best voice he could muster. Perhaps thepounding might have been heard had not his friends at that moment beenseeking for his mangled form in the garden, among the rose vines.After listening in vain for a reply, Runyon came back to the girls,saying:"This is certainly a singular occurrence. I came in as easily as I everdid anything in my life, I assure you; but the way out is not so easy.However, we won't have to endure this confinement long, for the boys arebreaking down the wall in two places."Then, in reply to their anxious questioning, he related the incidents ofthe night: how the discovery was made that Toodlums and her two nurseswere missing; of the search throughout the country in automobiles; howthe major had heard the "ghost" of baby Jane, which had given them theirfirst intimation of the truth, and of the desperate and vain attemptsmade to get into the secret chamber.Mildred, in return, explained the accident that had led to theirimprisonment and of their failure to find any means of escape."There must be a way out, of course," she added, "for Senor Cristovalwould never invent such clever and complicated ways of getting into thishollow wall without inventing other means of getting out.""True enough," agreed Runyon; "but I can't see why he thought itnecessary to make the means of getting _out_ a secret. These rooms wereprobably built as hiding-places, and there are at least two separateentrances. But whoever hid here should be master of the situation andhave no difficulty in escaping when the danger was over.""Unless," said Mildred, thoughtfully, "the rooms were also intended as aprison.""Well, perhaps that is it," said the man. "Old Cristoval may havethought the occasion would arise when he would like to keep one or moreprisoners here, so he concealed the exits as carefully as the entrances.Let us admit, young ladies, that it's a first-class prison. But," histone changing to one of kindly concern, "how have you stood this ordeal?You must be worn out with anxiety, and desperately hungry, too."As he gazed into Mildred's face it occurred to him, for the first time,that Jane's new nurse was an interesting girl. She was not exactlybeautiful, but--attractive. Indeed, at that moment Mildred was at herbest, despite the night's vigil. The hard, defiant look had left hereyes for the first time in years, driven out by a train of excitingevents that had led her to forget herself and her rebellion againstfate, at least for the time being."We are not very hungry," she said, smiling at the big, boyish rancher,"but we are thirsty. I'd give anything for a good drink of water. Andbaby is now devouring the last few drops of her prepared food. When itis gone there is nothing here that she can eat.""Well," said he, spurred to action by this report, "I'm going to explorethis place carefully, for if we can manage to find a way out it willsave Weldon and his men from ruining that wall, and also save time, forthe blamed adobe is so hard and thick that it will still require hoursfor them to make a hole big enough to get us out."CHAPTER XVII--THE PRODIGAL SONWith the added light that now came from the gratings in the ceilingevery object in the upper room was plainly visible. Runyon began hisinspection in a methodical manner, starting at one corner and eyeing theinner wall on every inch of its surface. He tested each block at itscorners and edges. The girls watched him listlessly, for they expectedno result, having covered the same methods themselves.At length Runyon was obliged to abandon the wall in despair."The opening is there, of course," he said, "but that confoundedCristoval was too clever for us. If I had the rascal here now, I'dstrangle him!"As he stood in the center of the narrow space, looking around him, hiseye fell upon the upholstered seats ranged along one side and heregarded them suspiciously. They were box-like affairs, with the surfaceof the covers padded and cushioned.He reached down and lifted one of the lids. As he glanced within heuttered an exclamation of astonishment. The box was almost filled withbottles, lying regularly on their sides."Wine!" he cried. "Now, Miss--I don't remember to have heard yourname--I shall be able to relieve your thirst.""My name is Travers--Mildred Travers, sir; but I can't drink wine.""Not to quench your thirst--just a few swallows?" he asked, taking abottle and trying to remove the cork."Not a drop, even to save my life," she replied positively."But I will, Senor Runyon--I will!" cried Inez eagerly."Runyon!" exclaimed Mildred, stepping back in amazement and looking atthe man rather wildly."Excuse me; haven't I introduced myself?" he asked, looking up. "Yes; myname's Runyon."Something in her expression arrested his gaze and he regarded the girlcuriously."Bulwer Runyon?" she said in a low voice.He sat down on the box, holding the bottle between his knees."They christened me that. Very foolishly, I think. But what do you knowof Bulwer Runyon?""Your mother--is--Martha Runyon?""To be sure--bless her heart! Ah, you know my mother, then, and that'show you have heard of me. But nothing good, from the dear old lady'slips, I'll be bound.""She really loves you," replied Mildred quickly; "only--you havedisappointed her.""Indeed I have. I've always disappointed her, ever since I canremember.""You were very extravagant," said Mildred in a reproachful tone."Yes; that was my fault. Father spoiled me; then he died and left allhis fortune to mother. Quite right. But mother is pretty close with hermoney.""Did she not pay all your debts?""Yes; but that was foolish. She reproached me for owing people, whichwas one of my pet recreations. So she paid the bills, bought me a ranchout here, shipped me into exile and washed her hands of me, declaringthat the ranch was my sole inheritance and I must never expect anothercent of her fortune. She proposes, I believe, to invest her surplus incharity. Nice idea, wasn't it?""It was very generous in her," declared Mildred."Was it? Well, that's a matter of opinion. But I regard her gift of thisranch as the first step to perpetual pauperdom. She tossed the land atme, shuffled me off, and then expected me to make a living.""Can't you do that?" asked Mildred wonderingly."Make a living on a California ranch!" he said, as if astonished."Others do," she asserted."There is no other just like your humble servant," he assured her, againstruggling with the cork. "I can't grow enough lemons--it's a lemonranch she handed me--to pay expenses. The first year I decorated myestate with a mortgage; had to have an automobile, you know. The secondyear I put another plaster on to pay the interest of the first mortgageand a few scattering debts. Third year, the third patch; fourth year,the usual thing. Fifth year--that's this one--the money sharks balked.They said the ranch is loaded to its full capacity. So, I'll have tosell some lemons.""Oh, I'm so sorry!" cried Mildred."So am I, thank you. Stupid thing, selling lemons. But the wolf's at thedoor and all I can do is shoot lemons at the brute. Lemons! Wasn't ittart of the dear mother to load me with such an acidulous estate?Perhaps she imagined it would make me assiduous--eh?""Your mother hoped you would turn over a new leaf and--and redeem yourpast," said the girl."Well, it's too late to do that now. I can't redeem the past withoutredeeming the ranch, and that's impossible," he declared with a grin."But tell me, please, how you happen to be so deep in my mother'sconfidence."Mildred hesitated, but reflected that she really owed him anexplanation."She protected me when I was in trouble," she said softly."Ah; that's like the dear old girl. Do you know, I've an idea that whenI'm down and out she'll relent and come to my assistance with a fattedcalf? It would be just like her. I've known of others she befriended.Her hobby is to help poor girls. There was that Leighton girl, forinstance, whose smuggling, murderous father was imprisoned for life. Thepoor little thing hadn't a friend in the world till mother took her inhand and put her in a training school for nurses. The mother wrote mehow interested she was in that case. Her protege did her credit, itseems, for the child turned out a very good nurse, who--who--"He suddenly paused, flushed red and stared at the girl uncertainly."You say your name is--Travers?" he asked."Yes," she replied, casting down her eyes."Not--Leighton?""Cannot you pull the cork, Senor Runyon? I am so thirsty!" cried Inezquickly, to save her friend from disclosing her secret. But big Runyonwas bright enough, in spite of his peculiarities. He read Mildred'sconfusion and suspected the truth, but was too considerate to press thequestion."The cork is obstinate," said he; "so we won't argue with the thing,"and he struck the neck of the bottle against a corner of the seat andbroke it so neatly that not a drop of the contents was spilled. Then hetook a cup from the shelf and poured out some of the wine."It's a native vintage," said he, "but it ought to be mellow and mildafter all the years it has lain here."Inez drank. The California Mexicans are accustomed to the native winesand consume them as freely as water. But Mildred, although again pressedto quench her thirst, steadfastly refused.Runyon took a little of the wine, for he also was thirsty, and then hemade an examination of the other seats. Some contained more wine; otherswere quite empty; but no water was discovered anywhere."Now I shall go below," said Runyon, "and see if I can unearth anythingof importance there. Do you hear those dull sounds on the other side ofthe wall? They tell us that our friends are busy drilling the holes.It's wonderful how tough that adobe is."Little Jane had awakened again and Inez took baby Jane in her arms and,with Mildred, followed Runyon down the stairs into the lower chamber.Here they watched his careful inspection of the room but did not hopefor any favorable result."Here is food," he announced, as, having given up the idea of findingegress, he came upon the cans of tomatoes and corn."Yes; but we have no can-opener," replied Mildred; "and, unless thecontents were cooked, they would not be eatable.""I'm not thinking of the eatables," said Runyon, taking out a smallpen-knife, for he had already ruined the larger one he always carried."Tomatoes usually have a lot of liquid in the cans, a sort of wateryjuice which I am sure would help to relieve your thirst."He began prying at the tin with a knife blade, but it was a heavyquality of plate, such as is rarely used nowadays, and resisted hisattempt. Soon the blade of the frail tool snapped at the handle, and hetried the other blade. That, too, soon broke and Runyon regarded the canwith a sort of wonder."It beats me," he said, shaking his head. "But I don't like to give up,and that tomato-juice would be of service if we could only get at it."Looking around for another implement his eye spied the revolver hangingupon its peg."Ah! if that weapon is loaded I'll use a bullet as a can-opener," heexclaimed, and reaching up he removed the revolver from its place."Good; six cartridges, 32 caliber," said he. "Now, young ladies, if youcan stand the noise, and the powder hasn't spoiled, I believe I can makea hole in that can which will allow the juice to run out.""I don't care," said Inez, "but I will take Mees Jane upstairs, first.""The sound will echo like a regular battle," said Mildred; "but as I amreally thirsty and your suggestion of relief tempts me, I am willing tohave you shoot the pistol."Runyon placed the can upon the edge of the low hinged table, where itstood about waist high. When Inez had gone above with little Jane, theman took a position whereby he faced obliquely the outer wall and aimingat the tomatoes said:"Better stop up your ears, Miss--Mildred."She obeyed and he fired.Even their anticipations could not prepare them for the wild riot ofsound that followed the explosion. The bullet found its mark, for thecan toppled and fell from the shelf and lay spilling its contents uponthe floor. The bullet went farther and struck a crevice of the outerwall. A cloud of smoke for a moment obscured their view and Mildred,regarding the tomato-can, cried out:"Oh, pick it up! Pick it up, quick! It is spilling."Runyon made no reply. He was staring straight ahead, in a dazed,bewildered way, and now Mildred's eyes followed his.The smoke was rolling out of a large aperture in the outer wall. Threehuge blocks of adobe, neatly joined together, had swung outward, movedby a secret spring which the bullet had released.Through the grim prison wall they were looking out at the sunshine thatflooded the rose garden.Mildred sank to her knees, sobbing with joy. Big Runyon walked to thestaircase."Hi, there, Inez!" he called. "Come down here and take Toodlums to hermother. I'll bet a button she'll be jolly glad to see that kid again!"CHAPTER XVIII--LACES AND GOLDAt four o'clock in the afternoon Patsy rubbed her eyes, yawned andraised her head from her pillow."Dear me!" she sighed, "I'm tired yet, but this sleeping in the daytimeis unnatural. I wonder if Beth is awake."She went to the door of the adjoining room, opened it and found hercousin dressing."Do you suppose anyone else is up?" she inquired."See there," replied Beth, pointing through the window.Patsy saw. Mr. Runyon was seated on a garden bench in earnestconversation with Mildred Travers."Didn't he go home this morning, after the excitement was over?" sheasked."No," replied Beth. "Mr. and Mrs. Hahn drove their car home, but ourinteresting neighbor at the north, Mr. Bul Run, declared there wasnothing at his own ranch half so enticing as a bed here. He's abachelor, it seems, and leads rather a lonely life. So Arthur gave him aroom and he went to bed; but it seems he has had his sleep out and isindulging in other recreations."Patsy was eyeing the couple in the garden."Mr. Runyon seems to have struck up a friendship with your protegeMildred," she observed."Yes," answered Beth. "You know he was shut up in the wall with her andInez for awhile and the adventure must have made them feel wellacquainted. Wasn't that imprisonment a most peculiar thing, Patsy?""Very peculiar. I haven't had much time to think about it, for as soonas Toodlums was safe in Louise's arms I went to bed. But it occurs to meto wonder how Mildred Travers knew so much of the secrets of this absurdold house and why she ventured to explore the hidden rooms in ourabsence. Put that with the fact that she lived in these parts as a girl,and with her eagerness to come out here--don't you remember her fervent'thank heaven'?--and it seems the whole mystery isn't unraveled yet;it's only getting more tangled."Beth was thoughtful for a time."I am sure Mildred will have some explanation to make," she saidpresently. "Don't let us judge her just yet, Patsy. And I advise you toget dressed, for there's Louise wheeling the baby, and perhaps everyoneelse is downstairs but us.""Louise and baby both slept all through that awful night," remarkedPatsy, again yawning. "No wonder they're up and around and lookingbright and happy." But she took her cousin's hint and dressed so rapidlythat she descended the stairs only a few moments after Beth did.Uncle John, the major and Arthur were in the court, smoking and sippingcoffee. The events of the past night were still being earnestlydiscussed by them and much speculation was indulged in concerning therooms in the hollow wall and the uses to which they had been put duringthe pioneer days when Cristoval constructed them, and even afterwardwhen his son, the last owner, had occupied the premises."The entire ranch," said Arthur, "as well as this house, was sold by theexecutors appointed by the court, for it seems that Cristoval had noheirs in this country. The money was sent over to Spain and dividedamong a host of relations, the executors were discharged, and that endedthe matter as far as the law is concerned. But I am sure the secret ofthe wall was at that time unknown to any, for otherwise the furniture inthose narrow rooms, some of which is expensive and valuable on accountof its unique carving, and the bins of wine and other truck, would havebeen sold with the other 'personal possessions.' I bought this place ofa man who had purchased it at the executors' sale but never has lived init. All the rooms were stripped bare, which goes to prove that thehidden recesses in the walls were unknown. Now, the question is, do Ilegally own the contents of that wall, or don't I?""I stepped into the rooms, this morning, with the others, but merelyglanced around a bit," said Mr. Merrick. "I've an idea you mayrightfully claim whatever is there. The value of such old, odd pieces isarbitrary and they wouldn't total enough at an auction sale to botherabout. My idea, Arthur, is that you remove whatever you care to retain,stop up the rat holes, and then seal up the place forever.""I suppose," remarked the major, "those hollow places in the wall wereof real value in the days of wild Indians and murdering highwaymen. But,as John Merrick says, they're of no use to anyone now, but rather asource of danger.""Was that door left open?" asked Patsy."Yes; and I put a brace against it, so it couldn't close and shut usout," replied Arthur."That doesn't matter; Mildred knows the way in," said Beth. "The wholetrouble was that Inez closed the door behind them and they couldn'tmanage to get out again."Mr. Merrick sipped his coffee reflectively."That girl," said he, "ought to explain how she knows so much--and solittle.""And what she was doing in the secret rooms," added the major."She'll do that," piped a high voice, and in sauntered Mr. Runyon andsat down to pour himself some coffee. "I've just leftMiss--er--er--Travers, and she has decided to tell you all her wholestory, frankly and without reservation, and then she wants to ask youradvice.""Whose advice?" demanded Arthur."Everybody's advice. She asked mine, a little while ago, and I told herto put it up to the crowd. The poor thing has had a sad history andthere's a bit of romance and tragedy connected with it; but she has beenquite blameless. I haven't known you people long, but I'll bank on yourgenerosity and fairness, and that's what I told the poor girl.""Where is she now?" asked Patsy."In the garden with Mrs. Weldon and Toodlums. They'll all be herepresently."The little group remained silent and thoughtful until Louise enteredwheeling the baby in her cab and followed by Mildred Travers. Thenurse's face was white and troubled but she had acquired a newattractiveness for the reason that her eyes had softened and were nowpleading instead of defiant.Inez came running from the nursery to take baby, but Louise would notlet little Jane go. Although she had escaped much of the past night'smisery, thanks to Dr. Knox's quieting powders, the young mother wasstill unnerved and liked to have the child where she could see it. SoInez sat on a bench and held Jane, who was the least concerned of anyoneover her recent peril and fortunate escape.The court was shady, cool and quiet. Those assembled eyed Mildredcuriously and expectantly, so that she was really embarrassed at first.Beth, who felt in a measure responsible for this waif of a great city,because she had been instrumental in bringing her here, gently ledMildred to a beginning of her story by asking a few questions thatafforded the girl an opening.The entire party listened gravely to the recital, for only Inez, amongthose present, had ever heard any part of the strange tale before.Mildred told practically the same story she had related to the Mexicangirl the night before, but went more into details and explained morefully her girlhood acquaintance with Senor Cristoval."He was an unusual man," said she; "aged and white-haired, as I rememberhim, and always dressed in white flannels, which threw his dark skininto sharp relief. He lived alone in the house, having but oneman-servant to do all the work, cook his meals and cater to hisslightest whim.""Miguel Zaloa," said Inez in a low voice."Cristoval was not popular," said Mildred, "for he loved money so wellthat he was reputed to be a miser. It was this love of money, I think,that induced him to go into partnership with my father in his illegalsmuggling enterprises. Cristoval furnished the money and when my fatherhad slipped across the border with his bales of rare laces, they werehidden in the hollow wall until they could be forwarded to San Franciscoand sold."And this brings me to a relation of my present interest in this house,"she continued. "When we escaped from California a large lot of veryvaluable Mexican laces which belonged exclusively to my father washidden in the wall. The sale of a former lot of smuggled goods hadresulted in a large profit and Cristoval had received a bank draft forthe amount, one half of which was due my father. When we last sawCristoval at San Bernardino, before we left for New York, he promised myfather to cash the draft and send him the proceeds. This he never did,although he advanced my father, at that time, a sum of money from othersources to pay our expenses until we could establish ourselves in theeast."To avoid suspicion, my father always allowed Cristoval to bank thepartnership money, drawing on the rich Spaniard from time to time forwhat he required. Father told me that altogether Cristoval owed him ninethousand dollars, besides the bale of laces, valued at ten thousandmore. He wrote many times to demand this money, using a cipher they hadarranged between them, but his letters were never answered. I know nowthat Cristoval died soon after we went to New York, so whoever got theletters, being unable to read the secret cipher, of course ignored them."Just as Leighton was being taken to prison, the last time I ever sawhim, he told me to find some way to come here and get the money. He saidthat if Cristoval was dead, as he then suspected, the secret of the wallwas still safe, for the old man had vowed never to disclose it. Hethought I would find the laces still hidden in the wall, and perhaps themoney.""Did you look to see, while you were there?" asked Arthur Weldon."Yes. There is no evidence of any property that I could rightfullyclaim."It was a strange recital, and a fascinating one to those who heard it."Who would think," said Patsy, "that in this prosaic age we would get soclose to a real story of smuggling, hidden treasure and secret recessesin walls? It smacks more of the romantic days of past centuries.""We must not forget," replied Louise, "that of all our numerous statesCalifornia has the most romantic history. It wasn't so long ago that theSpanish don flourished in this section and even yet it is more Spanishthan American except in the big cities.""As for smuggling," added Runyon, "that is going on to-day--as merrilyas in the days of the famous Leighton, if on a smaller scale. I've somechoice cigars over at my ranch that have never paid duty, and I've anorder with the smuggler for more. So, after all, there's nothing veryastonishing in Mildred Leighton's story.""The wall we have practical evidence of," said Uncle John. "I suppose itwill hold its secret rooms for many years to come, for these adobedwellings are practically fire-proof and are built to defy time.""But about Mildred's fortune," cried Patsy. "Don't you suppose it ishidden, after all, some place in the wall?""From what I have heard of Cristoval," said Arthur in a reflective tone,"he was not considered a dishonest man, but rather miserly andgrasping.""My father," explained Mildred, "trusted him fully until we went awayand could get no answer to his letters. The old Spaniard was very fondof me, also, and he would hold me in his arms and say that one day Iwould be a rich lady, for my father and he were both making my fortune.I was very young, as you know, but I never forgot that statement.""Suppose," suggested the major, "we make another and more thoroughsearch of those secret rooms.""We will do that," replied Arthur promptly. "It is too late to undertakethe task to-night, but we will begin it right after breakfast to-morrowmorning. Inez, I wish you would slip down to the quarters and ask Miguelto come and help us. Tell him to be here at nine o'clock."The girl nodded, gave the baby to Mildred and stole quietly out of thecourt.CHAPTER XIX--INEZ AND MIGUELInez found Miguel Zaloa smoking his cigarette among the orange trees. Hewas quite alone and looked at the girl in an expectant way as sheapproached."Oh, Miguel!" she cried. "I tell you a secret. Of course it is no secretany more, for now they all know it, up there at the house. MeeldredTravers, the girl from New York, is not Meeldred Travers. She is thechild of Leighton the smuggler--she is Meeldred Leighton!"The old ranchero stood as if turned to stone, but he bit his cigarettein two and it fell unnoticed upon the ground. While Inez regarded himwith disappointment, because he had exhibited no emotion at hearing thewonderful news, Miguel turned his back and mechanically walked awaythrough a row of trees. A dozen paces distant he halted and again stoodmotionless for the space of a full minute. Then he swung around and withslow, hesitating steps returned to Inez."You say--she--ees Meeldred Leighton?" he asked, as if he thought he hadnot heard aright."Of course. Don't you remember, Miguel? She say, when she used to comehere, a little girl, with Leighton the great smuggler, you did know her.It was then you served Senor Cristoval, at the big house."He nodded, his dark eyes fixed upon her face but displaying noexpression."Leighton is dead," continued Inez, delighted to be able to gossip ofall she had heard. "They put him in a prison an' he died. So Meeldredwas ashame of her father's bad name an' call herself Travers. She ispoor, an' that is why she come here as nurse, so she can find the moneythat belong to her."Miguel suddenly seized her wrist in a powerful grip."What money?" he demanded."Don't; you hurt my arm! It is the money Senor Cristoval owed herfather. Take your hand away, Miguel Zaloa!"Slowly he released her."Where will she find thees money?" he asked."She does not know. Perhaps it is not here at all. But there was a greatheap of laces, worth much money, which Senor Cristoval hid in the wallto keep for Leighton."Miguel laughed. He seemed suddenly to have regained his equanimity. Hebegan rolling another cigarette."They will be old, by now, thees lace," said he."A lace is better when it is old," asserted the girl.The man paused, looked at the half-made cigarette and tossed it away.Then he glanced around to see if they were observed and taking Inez'arm--gently, this time--he led her away from the path and into a thicketof orange trees."Thees Meeldred," he said in soft tones, "you hate.""No, no! I do not hate her now. I love Meeldred.""So!" he said, drawing in his breath and regarding the girl withsurprise. "You tell me once she is witch-woman.""I am wrong," declared Inez earnestly. "She is good. She have been pooran' friendless, all because of her father, the noble smuggler Leighton.But see, Miguel; I have been all night shut up in the wall with her. Wetalk, an' I learn to know her better. I do not hate Meeldred any more--Ilove her!""Sit down," said the old man, pointing to a hillock beside a tree. Inezobeyed, and he squatted on the ground facing her and coolly rolledanother cigarette. "Tell me more about thees girl--Leighton's girl," hesaid.Inez related Mildred's story as well as she was able, exaggerating suchromantic details as appealed to her fancy, but showing unboundedsympathy for her new friend. The aged ranchero listened intently,nodding his white head now and then to show his interest. When the girlhad finished he smoked for a time in silence."What Meeldred do now?" he inquired."They will hunt in the wall, to-morrow, to find the lace," she replied."Meest Weldon say for you to come to the house at nine o'clock, inmorning, to help them.""Meest Weld say that?""Yes. But we have search already--Meeldred an' me--an' Meest Bul-Runhave search, an' no lace is there. I am sure of that. I am sure no moneyis there, too. So Meeldred mus' stay as nurse all her life an' help metake care of Mees Jane."Miguel pondered this."B'm'by Mees Jane grow up," said he. "What can Leighton's daughter dothen?""How can I tell that?" answered Inez, shaking her head. "Always poorpeople mus' work, Miguel. Is it not so?""Rich people mus' work, too," continued the Mexican girl dreamily, asshe embraced her drawn-up legs and rested her chin upon her knees. "Wasold Senor Cristoval more happy than we, with all the money he loved? No!Meest Weldon works; Meest Hahn works; even Meest Bul-Runworks--sometime. If one does not work, one is not happy, Miguel; an' ifone mus' work, money makes not any difference. So, when Meeldred findshe is still poor, an' has no money an' no laces, like she hope for, shewill work jus' the same as ever, an' be happy.""I, too, work," remarked the old man. "I have always work.""If you had much money, Miguel, you would still work.""Yes.""You would not care for money; not you. It would not do you any good. Itwould not change your life.""No."Again they sat in silence, as if reflecting on this primitivephilosophy. Finally Inez said:"You remember Leighton, Miguel?""Yes. He was good man. He make much money for Senor Cristoval an' forheemself. Sometime I see them count gold--ten pieces to Senor Cristoval,ten pieces to Leighton--to divide even. Then Leighton will throw me agold-piece an' say: 'That for you, Miguel, because you are faithful an'true.'""An' Senor Cristoval, did he throw the gold-piece to you, also?""No.""What did you do with the gold Leighton give you, Miguel?"The old man shrugged his shoulders. "Tobacco. Some wine. A game ofcard.""An' were you faithful an' true, as Leighton say?"He looked at her long and steadily."What you theenk about that, Inez?""When people talk about Miguel Zaloa, they always say he is good man. Ihear Meest Weldon say: 'Miguel is honest. I would trust Miguel with allI have.'""Meest Weld say that?""Yes.""Well?""I think you are sometime honest, sometime not; like I am myself,"replied the girl.The old man rose and led the way back to the path."To be always honest is to be sometime foolish," he muttered on the way."Tell Meest Weld I will be there, like he say, at nine o'clock."CHAPTER XX--MR. RUNYON'S DISCOVERYSing Fing excelled himself at the dinner that evening, which was a merrymeal because all dangers and worries seemed to belong to the past. Alsoit was, as Uncle John feelingly remarked, "the first square meal theyhad enjoyed since the one at Castro's restaurant." Of course Runyonstayed, because he was to help search the wall the next day, and as thetelephone had been repaired Louise called up Rudolph and Helen Hahn andbegged them to drive over and help them celebrate at the festive board.So the Hahns came--although they returned home again in the lateevening--and it was really a joyous and happy occasion. Inez brought inthe baby, which crowed jubilantly and submitted to so many kisses thatPatsy declared she was afraid they would wear the skin off Toodlum'schubby cheeks unless they desisted.Mildred had gone to her room immediately after her confession in thecourt and Louise had respected her desire for privacy and had orderedher dinner sent in to her.As they all sat in the library, after dining, in a cosy circle aroundthe grate fire, they conversed seriously on Mildred Leighton andcanvassed her past history and future prospects."I cannot see," said Beth, always the nurse's champion, "that we arecalled upon to condemn poor Mildred because her father was a criminal.""Of course not," agreed Patsy, "the poor child wasn't to blame.""These criminal tendencies," remarked the major gravely, "are sometimeshereditary.""Oh, but that's nonsense!" declared Uncle John. "We can't imagineMildred's becoming a smuggler--or smuggleress, or whatever you call it.That hard, cold look in her eyes, which we all so thoughtlesslycondemned, was merely an indication of suffering, of hurt pride andshame for the disgrace that had been thrust upon her. I liked the girlbetter to-day, as with blazing cheeks she told of all her grief andstruggles, than ever before since I knew her.""The expression of the eye," said Arthur, "is usually considered aninfallible indication of character.""That's a foolish prejudice," asserted Patsy, whose own frank andbrilliant eyes were her chief attraction."I do not think so, dear," objected Louise. "The eyes may not trulyindicate character, but they surely indicate one's state of mind. We didnot read the hard look in Mildred's eyes correctly, I admit, but itshowed her to be on guard against the world's criticism, resentful ofher hard fate and hopeless in her longing for a respectable socialposition. She realized that were her story known she would meet withsneers and jeers on every side, and therefore she proudly held herselfaloof.""But now," said Patsy, "circumstances have changed Mildred's viewpoint.She found that our knowledge of her story only brought her sympathy andconsideration, and when she left us I noticed that her eyes were softand grateful and full of tears."Big Runyon had listened to this conversation rather uneasily and withevident disapproval. Now he said, in as positive a tone as hisunfortunate voice would permit:"That girl's a corker, and I'm proud of her. In the first place, mymother is a shrewd judge of character. You can't fool her about aperson's worth; just see how accurately she judged _my_ character! Whenthe dear old lady--whose only fault is being so close-fisted--picked upMildred Leighton and defended her, that act vouched for the girl's worthbeyond dispute. Mrs. Runyon--bless her stingy old heart!--never makes amistake. Just think of it: she actually spent money in giving Mildred aneducation as a trained nurse. To my mind that settled the girl'scharacter for all time. Now, I don't care a continental whether shefinds any smuggled laces or not; she needs a friend, and now that she isaway from my mother's care _I'm_ going to be that friend.""Oh, Bul!" cried Louise with lively interest, "are you in love?""Me? At my age? Cer-tain-ly not!""How old are you?""Thirty.""Old enough to know better," said Uncle John."Old enough to need a wife to care for him," suggested Helen Hahn."Honest Injun, Run; aren't you a little soft on Mildred?" asked Rudolph."Well, perhaps a little; but it's nothing like that currant-jelly,chocolate bonbon, glucose-like feeling which I've observed is theoutward demonstration of love.""Oh, well; marry the girl and be done with it, then," laughed Arthur."And rob me of my nurse?" protested Louise."Runyon needs a nurse as much as Jane. In fact, he's a much biggerbaby."Mr. Runyon accepted all this jollying with calm indifference."The days of chivalry are over," he sighed. "If a fellow tries toprotect a maiden in distress, they think he wants to marry her.""Don't you?" asked Patsy, in a sympathetic tone."Why, I hadn't thought of it before; but it wouldn't be a half-badidea," he confessed. "Ranch life is a bit lonely without women around tobother one.""You are all talking foolishly," observed Beth, who was not romantic."Mildred might object to washing Mr. Runyon's dishes.""Why, yes; I believe she would," said Mr. Runyon. "I'm sure shedisapproves of my character; that's why I respect her judgment, sohighly. She didn't seem at all interested in those various mortgages,when I mentioned them; and what else have I to offer a wife?"Even the cosy library could not hold them very late, for none had beenfully restored by the sleep obtained during the day. Bed seemed morealluring than a grate fire and when the Hahns went home the party brokeup, to meet again at an eight o'clock breakfast.As soon as the meal was over Arthur Weldon announced that the firstbusiness of the day would be an examination of the secret rooms in thewall of the old East Wing."And this must be a thorough and final inspection of the place," headded. "We must satisfy ourselves and Mildred Travers, without theshadow of a doubt, that we have inventoried every blessed thing in thoserooms--even to the rats and beetles.""That's right," approved Mr. Merrick. "Let us do the job once and forall. We've plenty of time at our disposal and there are enough of uswith sharp eyes to ferret out every mystery of the place. In Mildred'sinterest we must be thorough."In the court they found old Miguel, sitting motionless and patient. Hewas carefully dressed in his best clothes and wore a red necktie, "justas if," said Patsy, "he was going to a party instead of delving in dustyplaces."The ranchero arose and made his master and mistress one of his bestbows. Then he waited silently for instructions.Beth went to Mildred's room and brought the girl to join the searchers,for this undertaking had been planned on her account. Her face wore ananxious look, for although she was not very hopeful of results it wasthe last chance of her securing any of her father's personalpossessions. Otherwise she greeted the party with modesty and withgentle dignity and had never seemed to them more womanly or agreeable.Together they left the court and proceeded to the nursery. There were nolaggards and everyone except the servants was determined to have a partin the fascinating investigation.Mildred explained to them the manner in which she had first entered thewall, putting in action the secret method taught her as a girl byCristoval and demonstrating the mechanism before their very eyes. Theyentered the lower chamber, one by one, and this time the adobe door wasnot closed behind them, although the light of broad day now flooded theplace through the opening discovered by Runyon. This opening led intothe garden and was half choked with rose vines. The series of swingingblocks had been propped back against the outer wall to insure a readyexit in case of accident.And now they eagerly set to work to pry into every crack and corner ofthe place. The main idea was to find some secret cavity or cupboard inthe wall which might contain the missing laces or other valuables. Withthis in view they had brought levers and pries and all sorts of toolsthat might be of service.The girls were mainly useful in taking up and turning the matting, nowsomewhat decayed by age, and investigating those nooks and shelvesalready discovered. But they found little more than Mildred had doneduring her first exploration, and the men who were testing the wall metwith no encouragement at all. Aside from the two cleverly constructedopenings--one into the nursery and one into the garden--the blocks whichcomposed the wall seemed every one solid and immovable and resistedevery attempt to wrest them from their places.After more than two hours of industry, during which every man believedhe had examined every block, they were forced to abandon the lowerchamber and ascend the steep stairs to the upper one."This," said Arthur, looking around him, "seems far more promising. Letus give the floor our first attention, for it is not over the lower roombut to one side of it. It strikes me that the builder would be quitelikely to make a secret pocket in the floor."Following this advice they attacked the blocks of the floor with pry andcrowbar, but found nothing to reward them. Old Miguel worked steadilyand did whatever he was told, but displayed no particle of enthusiasm,or even of interest.After the floor, the walls were examined, one by one, from floor toceiling. The panel on the inner wall, which had baffled both Mildred andRunyon on that eventful night of their imprisonment, suddenly disclosedits secret when accidentally pressed on opposite corners at the sametime. It slipped down and discovered a similar panel beyond it, whichwas operated by a spring placed in plain sight. Releasing this, theyfound they were looking into the vacant second story room which they hadonce before unsuccessfully searched.So this was one way from the house into the upper chamber of the wall.Of course there was another way--that through which Runyon had been soabruptly precipitated. In order to find this the more readily, they sentthe big rancher into the blue room and asked him to take the sameposition in the window he had on the night of his disappearance. This hedid, pushing against the planking that boxed the window, with bothelbows and with his back and shoulders, but without result. Finally, inhis attempts, he inadvertently struck the opposite panel with his heel,and the response was startling. The panel, at his back, being released,fell backward without warning and for the second time Runyon tumbledunawares into the chamber of the wall. As soon as his body had fallenthrough, the panel slammed into place again, urged by a very powerfulsteel spring, but the major, who had been in the blue room to watchRunyon, had caught the trick and the mystery was solved.As for Mr. Runyon, he again fell upon the bed and rebounded, knockingover both Mr. Merrick and Miguel as he alighted in the narrow chamber,but fortunately not injuring either of them.A little dazed by his second precipitation, the big rancher stared amoment and then slapped his thigh a mighty stroke."I have it--I have it!" he cried."It occurs to me," said Uncle John, a little resentfully, "that youdeserve all you've got, and more. It's a wonder you didn't break yourneck.""What have you, Run?" asked Arthur."I've found the laces.""What?--where?" they exclaimed."In the blue room, or on the way down?" added Beth sarcastically."After I got down," he answered. "What fools we have all been!""Will you kindly explain, Mr. Runyon?" asked Mildred, very earnestly."I will. It's simple enough. Just look at that bed.""The bed!" And now every eye was turned upon the couch."Of course," said Runyon. "There's something more than a mere mattressand springs. I've tumbled onto the thing twice, and I ought to know."CHAPTER XXI--A FORTUNE IN TATTERSAlready Arthur was pulling off the bedding and piling it upon the floor.They stood back of him in an excited group, every head craned forward towatch his movements.Off came the pillows--blankets--sheets--finally the mattress. This last,a thin cotton affair, left a trail of fuzzy, lint-like debris behind itand disclosed on removal a canvas cover that had been spread underneath.The canvas, which was about on a level with the boxed-in bed frame, wasas full of holes as a Swiss cheese and especially toward the center theweave had become disintegrated and given away to a dusty pulp."Rats!" exclaimed Uncle John, whose head was thrust between theshoulders of the major and Runyon.As if his cry had been a summons, out sprang a huge gray rodent and thegirls pushed back with loud screams as the dreaded beast struck thefloor and scurried away down the passage. Another and another followedit, and now Louise, Patsy, Beth, Mildred and Inez were all dancing ontop the seats, wrapping their skirts about their ankles and whoopinglike a tribe of Indians.Amid this wild hullabaloo, which struck terror to the hearts of thebrave men assembled, because at the instant they were too bewildered torealize what caused it, some six or eight monstrous rats leaped from thetattered canvas which covered the bed and vanished down the stairs.Arthur put his hand down to raise the canvas and jumped back as heunearthed a nest of smaller vermin, squirming here and there in blindendeavors to escape their disturbers. Runyon brought a deep brass bowlfrom a shelf and dumped the small rats into it, standing by to captureothers as they appeared.Gradually Weldon drew back the cover and as he did so the truth ofRunyon's prophecy was apparent. The entire space boxed in by the carvedbed-frame, from the floor to its upper edge, was packed solidly withvaluable laces. That is, it had once been solidly packed, but now therats had eaten tunnels and nests and boulevards through the costly lacesin every direction. It was a scene of absolute ruin. However preciousthis collection might once have been, in its present state it was notworth a copper cent.The party gazed upon the sight with mingled awe and astonishment. Regretfor the destruction of the beautiful fabrics at first rendered themoblivious to the fact that the inheritance of Mildred Leighton was atlast recovered--only to be proved worthless.Arthur dragged out a few scraps and spread them upon the floor, therebyexhibiting portions of the beautiful patterns of the various pieces.Then, hoping to find some that had escaped the ruthless teeth of therats, he and Runyon began pulling at the heap and working downwardtoward the floor. Just a few small pieces were found intact, but thesewere of slight value. Practically the entire lot was irretrievablyruined.Scarcely a word was spoken as the investigation proceeded. Beth hadclasped one of Mildred's hands and Patsy the other, but neither daredlook in the poor girl's face, for they dreaded the poignantdisappointment sure to reign there.But after the first shock, Mildred bore up bravely. She had notexpected, in the beginning, any tangible result; still it was verybitter to find her long sought fortune and realize that it amounted tonothing.They sat around upon the benches, or leaning against the wall, andstared at the ruined laces with various emotions, the keenest beingregret for the loss of so much beautiful handwork and sympathy forMildred Leighton.Suddenly Runyon broke the silence."This discovery is too thundering bad for mere words," he said withfeeling; "but Miss Travers--Mildred--must know we're all as sorry as sheis. She was right about the laces, but the laces are all wrong. This sadexhibit reminds me of my own perverse mortgages, and my mortgages remindme of something else. Mildred," he added, turning to the girl in adogged and rather shamefaced way, "I'm going to hold a privateconversation with you right here before our good friends, for I knowevery one of them will back me up. Eh?" he questioned, glancing aroundthe group.There were some smiles, but many nods. As if encouraged, Runyonproceeded:"This settles the question of your fortune. It's gone--vanished intoscraps. You're a poor girl, now, with no glittering prospects, so whatI'm going to say won't seem quite so selfish as it would otherwise. Infact, had these laces been perfect, they would have rendered me dumb. Asit is, here stand two impecunious ones--you and I. Between us we haven'tmuch more than enough to fry a fish, in solid cash, but among myencumbrances are a delightful little bungalow, nicely furnished, and alot of lemon trees that can be coaxed to buy us groceries and ordinarycomforts. I'm a lonely fellow, Mildred, and I need a companion. Will youmarry me, and look after that bungalow?"This extraordinary proposal was heard in breathless silence. The menwere astounded, the girls delighted. Every eye turned curiously uponMildred Travers, who regarded the big rancher with frank wonder, a wansmile upon her pallid features."You do not say you love me," she suggested, striving through mildbanter to cover her confusion."Well, isn't that implied?" he answered. "No one would propose to a girlhe didn't love, would he?""You have only known me two days.""Two days and seven hours. But mother endorsed you and I'll bank on herjudgment.""When the mortgages come due, there won't be any bungalow," shecontinued."Don't you believe it," cried Runyon, earnestly. "With you to work for,I'll make those tart old lemons pay the interest and a good incomebesides. In fact, if we live long enough, we may even manage to reducethe mortgages. You see, I've been extravagant and foolish, but it wasbecause I had no aim in life. The minute you say 'yes,' I'm a reformedcharacter."She shook her head and the smile faded from her face."Don't think me ungrateful, Mr. Runyon," she said quietly. "Unusualand--and--peculiar--as this proposal is, I believe you are sincere inwhat you say. But you are influenced just now by pity for me and Iassure you I am quite capable of earning my own living.""But--oh, Mildred---he's so lonely," cried Patsy, impulsively."I'm sorry for that," she said, "but it is not my fault.""It will be, though, if you refuse," declared Runyon."I fear I must.""I see," he said with a sigh. "Mother endorsed you, but she didn'tendorse me. You've heard some tough yarns about me--all true asgospel--and you're prejudiced. I don't know as I blame you. If I were agirl I'd hesitate to reform such a desperate character, I'm sure. ButI've the notion there's the making of a decent fellow in me, if theright workman undertakes the job."She looked at him earnestly, now--very earnestly. In spite of thesqueaky voice and the inopportune time he had chosen for such a seriousproposal, there was an innate manliness and ingenuousness in hisattitude, as he stood there unabashed and towering above the other men,that seemed to her admirable and impressive. Both Beth and Patsy werereflecting that a girl might do much worse than to accept Bulwer Runyonas a mate.Said Mildred, still speaking in the same quiet and composed voice:"I will give you a positive answer in three days, Mr. Runyon. That delayis mere justice to us both.""Thank you," he said. "Shall we fuss with these tattered laces anylonger? It hardly seems worth while."Now that the strain of the situation was removed they all beganchattering volubly in order to give countenance to Mildred. Runyonseemed not to need such consideration.Old Miguel had witnessed and overheard this scene from the backgroundand his bright black eyes had roamed restlessly from the girl's face toRunyon's as if trying to read their true feelings. The discovery of thelaces had not drawn any exclamation from the ancient ranchero, whosestolid expression nothing seemed able to disturb. As the others fileddown the stairs and out of the recess in the wall, into the roomynursery, old Miguel followed imperturbable and serene as ever. In thecourt he touched his hat to his master."I go now, Meest Weld?" he asked."Yes. Thank you, Miguel, for your help.""I thank you, too," said Mildred, stepping forward to take the Mexican'shand. "I remember you well, Miguel. In the old days you often took careof me while my father and Senor Cristoval talked. Don't you remember?"He nodded, his eyes fixed full upon her face."Once a friend, always a friend, Miguel," she continued brightly. "Evento-day you have been trying to help me, and I am grateful. Some time wewill have a good talk together about the old days."Then he went away, and if one who knew old Miguel Zaloa could havefollowed him, his actions would have caused surprise.First he wandered deep into the orange groves, where--when absolutelyalone--he began muttering excitedly. At times he would kick his bootedfoot viciously against a tree-trunk, regardless of the impact thatnumbed his toes and sent a tingle up his legs. After a time thisremarkable exhibit of passion subsided and for the period of half anhour he stood quite motionless, staring straight before him and seeingnothing. Then he started off through the groves, climbed the fence intothe lane and marched away through miles and miles of the surroundingcountry.It was growing dark when Miguel at last appeared at the quarters,growling at the men and ordering them to get into the groves and work.They marked his ill temper and took care not to arouse his furtheranger. In the morning he was up at daybreak and in more gentle mooddirected the beginning of the day's labors.CHAPTER XXII--FAITHFUL AND TRUELate that afternoon Arthur and Louise sat in the court, chatting withtheir guests, who were occupied in coddling and amusing baby Jane, whenInez approached Mr. Weldon and said that Miguel wished to speak withhim."Send him here," said Arthur, and presently the old Mexican appeared,again arrayed in his best clothes and with the red necktie carefullyarranged. He held his hat in his hand and looked uncertainly around thecircle. Then his eyes wandered to the nursery and through the open doorhe saw Mildred sitting in a rocker, engaged in reading a book. Runyonhad gone home that morning, "to see if the ranch is still there," hesaid."I have--some--private talks to make, Meest Weld," began the oldranchero."Speak out, Miguel," said his master encouragingly."Oh; but he said 'private,'" Patsy reminded him."I know. Miguel understands that he may speak before my friends.""It ees--about--Senor Cristoval, Meest Weld.""Yes? Well, what about him, Miguel?""I am once servant for Senor Cristoval. I stay here in house with him,long time. When he get sick, before he die, I care for him. Doctor sayto me that Senor Cristoval can not get well; I say so to SenorCristoval. He say never mind, he have live long enough."This was interesting to them all in view of the recent happenings, andthe girls bent nearer to hear the old man's story. Arthur, the major andUncle John were equally intent."Senor Cristoval, he say, when he get very bad, there ees one thing hehate to leave, an' that ees--his money," continued Miguel. "He say,money ees his bes' friend, all time. But he no can take money where hewill go. He ees mad that many poor fools will spend the money he havelove an' cared for. So he make me take three big bag of gold an' driveto bank an' put away so the poor fools will find it. Much more money eesin bank, too. Then, when doctor come, he ask me when he will die, an'doctor say when sun next shine Senor Cristoval will not see it. Doctorwant to stay all night, but Senor Cristoval pay an' tell him go. He wantto die alone."But I am there. Some time in night Senor Cristoval he call an' say:'Miguel, I mus' not die till I have give to Leighton what belong to him.I have keep Leighton's money for him. I will show you where it ees hid,so you can give it to Leighton.'"Ah, they were intent enough now. Intuitively each listener seemed toknow that a secret was about to be revealed and many glances were casttoward the unconscious Mildred, who continued to read placidly. But noone interrupted the old Mexican."I help Senor Cristoval to stand up. He ees not strong, so I hold him.He walk from blue room to back room an' there he show me how to takeblock from wall. Behind block ees big place for money. Senor Cristovalhe say all money what belong to Leighton ees there. He tell me count it.So I put Senor Cristoval in chair an' he watch while I take out moneyan' count. There ees four bag. I count three bag an' he say good, it eesright. He say count last bag. So I empty bag on floor an' count gold an'put in bag again. When thees ees done I say: 'Is eet right?' But SenorCristoval say nothing. I look up, an' Senor Cristoval ees dead."The old man spoke simply and quietly, but they found his relationintensely dramatic. Patsy was trembling with excitement. Beth claspedLouise's hand and found it cold from nervousness."And then, Miguel?" said Arthur."Then, Meest Weld, I put gold in wall an' fix block so no one know an'carry Senor Cristoval to his bed. That ees all, Meest Weld.""And you told no one of Leighton's gold?""I tell no one. It ees belong to Leighton.""Where is it now, Miguel?""In wall, Meest Weld.""All of it?""All."There was a moment's pause."You know now that it belongs to Mildred--to Leighton's daughter,--doyou not?" he asked, an accent of sternness in his voice."I know, Meest Weld.""Then why did you not tell us of this before?"Old Miguel stood silent, shifting from one foot to another, his eyescast down, his slender brown fingers spasmodically pressing the rim ofhis sombrero. But when he spoke it was in his former quiet manner."I am a bad man, Meest Weld. I theenk I keep gold for myself. Why not,when no one know? Long time after Senor Cristoval die no one come here.Some time I go to room an' count gold. When I see it I have bad thought.I theenk it ees nice if I keep all myself. But when I go away an' workin the grove, I tell Miguel many time that gold ees not his; it eesLeighton's gold. I say when Leighton come for it he mus' have it. ButLeighton do not come. Many year the gold ees mine, an' no one know. Thencome Leighton's girl, an' I know I am bad man if I keep gold. But I saynothing. I theenk no one ever know.""But tell me," said Arthur curiously, "what good is the money to youwhen it is hidden in a wall?""Not much, Meest Weld; but I know I am rich. I say I can buy ranch an'be big man, an' no one know I have steal Leighton's gold.""Then why have you told us the secret?"Miguel glanced toward the nursery."I am man for work," said he. "Always I work; always I mus' work. I amold. When I can no work, I mus' die. Senor Cristoval mus' leave goldwhen he die; it ees same with Miguel. Now I have good job. I can workan' be happy. But--""Well, Miguel?""Leighton's daughter, she ees a girl. A girl can not work like a man. Itees her gold, not mine. When you say it, I will show you whereLeighton's gold ees hid."Uncle John sprang up and grasped the man's hand."You are an honest fellow, Miguel!" he cried."No, Meest Mereek," was the reply. "I have wish to steal, so I am nothonest.""But you have given up the gold.""Yes, Meest Mereek; because I am afraid.""I don't believe a word of it," said Patsy. "You were tempted to dowrong, Miguel, and if you had kept silent no one would ever have known;but you told us of the gold, and so you are faithful and true.""Ah, that ees what Meest Leighton tell me, some time," said he. "An'that ees what spoil me from being bad. Because Leighton say I amfaithful an' true, I have theenk I mus' be that way. That ees it."                                  ----Mildred's gold proved to be a small fortune. Perhaps Cristoval had addedto his partner's earnings, for the child's sake, for the total amountedto more than she had ever expected.It was all in hard cash and Arthur drove over to the bank and depositedit to the credit of Mildred Travers, as she preferred to retain thatname.Patsy and Beth were curious to know what the girl would do with herwindfall, but Mildred proved noncommittal."How about Bul Run?" asked Patsy.Mildred smiled but blushed deeply at the question."Would my money be enough to pay his mortgages?" she inquired."Perhaps," said Beth, "but that would be foolish. He would soon be indebt again.""No, no!" protested Patsy. "I'm sure he will reform if--""If Mildred marries him?""Yes."Mildred seemed troubled."The best way," declared Beth, "would be to have Mildred keep her moneyin her own name, and help out in case of emergency."Mildred approved that, and being pressed by the two girls she franklyconfided to them that she would accept Mr. Runyon when he came for hisanswer.Runyon appeared on the third day and Arthur met him and told him thegood news of the finding of Mildred's inheritance. But the effect ofthis discovery on the big rancher was to overwhelm him with despair."She will never marry me now," he asserted in doleful tones, "and I'drather die than ask her. It would be beastly to take such an advantageof the poor child. When she was poor, I could offer her a home with goodgrace, but now that she's rolling in gold the jig is up! If you'll tellme, where I can find old Miguel, I'll strangle the villain. Why inthunder couldn't he hold his tongue?"Arthur laughingly replied that money wouldn't make a particle ofdifference with a girl like Mildred, but Runyon would not listen andremained disconsolate. He stayed at the ranch, but moped around with awoe-begone countenance and refused to speak with anyone.Patsy and Beth skillfully contrived several opportunities for Runyon toapproach Mildred, but he ignored all chances and preferred to remainmiserable. The day passed without his demanding his answer. Mildred hadbeen bright and expectant and the girls read her disappointment when herunaccountable wooer delayed putting his fortune to the test.The next day he was no more cheerful, but rather seemed to haveaccumulated an added gloom. He sought a garden bench and smokedinnumerable cigars in solitary grief. If anyone approached, Runyon wouldretreat to the shrubbery. At mealtime he was likewise silent butconsumed enormous quantities of food, which made Patsy accuse him ofbeing an impostor."No regulation lover," she said to him, "ever had an appetite. Thenovels all say so. Therefore you can't love Mildred a bit."Runyon groaned, cast her a reproachful glance and went on eating.Several days passed without his asking Mildred for her answer, and nowthe absurd situation began to get on all their nerves. Mildred herselfgrew impatient and watched from the nursery window the garden bench onwhich Runyon sat gloomily in his perpetual cloud of smoke."He'll make himself sick, with those black cigars, I'm sure," observedPatsy, on one occasion."And he can't afford to smoke so many," added Beth. "Unless this thingstops, he'll soon have to take out a new mortgage.""Or sell some lemons," added Patsy."I believe," said Mildred slowly, as if summoning her courage, "I willspeak to him myself. Don't you think that would be best?""Of course," approved Patsy. "Runyon is a big baby, and needs a nursemore than little Jane. I'll hold Toodlums, Mildred, while you sallyforth and take the bull by the horns."Mildred looked at Beth for counsel."Unless you speak to him," said that young lady, "you will never gettogether. Moreover, the rest of us will grow mad or idiotic. So, for allour sakes, you'd better take Mr. Runyon in hand. You'll have to managehim afterward, anyhow, so the sooner you begin the better."Mildred handed little Jane to Patsy and left the nursery. Through thewindow the other girls watched her approach Mr. Runyon and stand beforehim. At once he stood up and threw away his cigar, but his face wastoward them and they could see that he did not speak.Mildred, however, was talking very earnestly. Runyon shook his head. Heturned half away. Then he swung sharply around and caught the girl inhis arms."Come, Beth," said Patsy; "let's go and tell Louise."*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AUNT JANE'S NIECES ON THE RANCH***A Word from Project GutenbergWe will update this book if we find any errors.This book can be found under: http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/35859Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no oneowns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (andyou!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permissionand without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth in theGeneral Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying anddistributing Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic works to protect theProject Gutenberg(tm) concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is aregistered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks,unless you receive specific permission. If you do not charge anythingfor copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You mayuse this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivativeworks, reports, performances and research. They may be modified andprinted and given away - you may do practically _anything_ with publicdomain eBooks.  Redistribution is subject to the trademark license,especially commercial redistribution.The Full Project Gutenberg License_Please read this before you distribute or use this work._To protect the Project Gutenberg(tm) mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (orany other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg(tm) License available with this file or online athttp://www.gutenberg.org/license.Section 1. General Terms of Use & Redistributing Project Gutenberg(tm)electronic works*1.A.* By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg(tm)electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all theterms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy allcopies of Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic works in your possession. Ifyou paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg(tm) electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.*1.B.* "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few thingsthat you can do with most Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic works evenwithout complying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg(tm) electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg(tm) electronicworks. See paragraph 1.E below.*1.C.* The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("theFoundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection ofProject Gutenberg(tm) electronic works. Nearly all the individual worksin the collection are in the public domain in the United States. If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent youfrom copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creatingderivative works based on the work as long as all references to ProjectGutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope that you will support theProject Gutenberg(tm) mission of promoting free access to electronicworks by freely sharing Project Gutenberg(tm) works in compliance withthe terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg(tm) nameassociated with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of thisagreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached fullProject Gutenberg(tm) License when you share it without charge withothers.*1.D.* The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg(tm) work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.*1.E.* Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:*1.E.1.* The following sentence, with active links to, or otherimmediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg(tm) License must appearprominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg(tm) work (any workon which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,performed, viewed, copied or distributed:    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with    almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away    or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License    included with this eBook or online at http://www.gutenberg.org*1.E.2.* If an individual Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic work isderived from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicatingthat it is posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work canbe copied and distributed to anyone in the United States without payingany fees or charges. If you are redistributing or providing access to awork with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing onthe work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg(tm) trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.*1.E.3.* If an individual Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic work isposted with the permission of the copyright holder, your use anddistribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 andany additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional termswill be linked to the Project Gutenberg(tm) License for all works postedwith the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning ofthis work.*1.E.4.* Do not unlink or detach or remove the full ProjectGutenberg(tm) License terms from this work, or any files containing apart of this work or any other work associated with ProjectGutenberg(tm).*1.E.5.* Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg(tm) License.*1.E.6.* You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg(tm) work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg(tm) web site(http://www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee orexpense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or ameans of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must includethe full Project Gutenberg(tm) License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.*1.E.7.* Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg(tm) worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.*1.E.8.* You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic worksprovided that  - You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from    the use of Project Gutenberg(tm) works calculated using the method    you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed    to the owner of the Project Gutenberg(tm) trademark, but he has    agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid    within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are    legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty    payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in    Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg    Literary Archive Foundation."  - You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies    you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he    does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg(tm)    License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all    copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue    all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg(tm)    works.  - You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of    any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the    electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of    receipt of the work.  - You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free    distribution of Project Gutenberg(tm) works.*1.E.9.* If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a ProjectGutenberg(tm) electronic work or group of works on different terms thanare set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writingfrom both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg(tm) trademark. Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3. below.*1.F.**1.F.1.* Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg(tm) collection.Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic works, and themedium on which they may be stored, may contain "Defects," such as, butnot limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcriptionerrors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, adefective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computercodes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.*1.F.2.* LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg(tm) trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg(tm) electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees.YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED INPARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, ANDANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FORACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGESEVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.*1.F.3.* LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from. If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation. The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.*1.F.4.* Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS,' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.*1.F.5.* Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law. The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.*1.F.6.* INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg(tm) electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg(tm)work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg(tm) work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg(tm)Project Gutenberg(tm) is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg(tm)'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg(tm) collection will remainfreely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure andpermanent future for Project Gutenberg(tm) and future generations. Tolearn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation andhow your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and theFoundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org .Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the stateof Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal RevenueService. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is64-6221541. Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf . Contributions to theProject Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to thefull extent permitted by U.S.  federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations. Its business office is located at 809North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and official pageat http://www.pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:    Dr. Gregory B. Newby    Chief Executive and Director    gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive FoundationProject Gutenberg(tm) depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations wherewe have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SENDDONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular statevisit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make anystatements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outsidethe United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other waysincluding checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate,please visit: http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateSection 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg(tm) electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg(tm)concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg(tm) eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg(tm) eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S. unlessa copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooksin compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook's eBooknumber, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected _editions_ of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number. The replaced older file is renamed._Versions_ based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:    http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg(tm),including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Doll and Her Friends, by UnknownThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: The Doll and Her Friends       or Memoirs of the Lady SeraphinaAuthor: UnknownIllustrator: Hablot K. BrowneRelease Date: June 18, 2007 [EBook #21861]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DOLL AND HER FRIENDS ***Produced by David Edwards, Jana Srna and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Thisfile was produced from images generously made availableby The University of Florida, The InternetArchive/Children's Library)[Illustration: Page 59.]                      THE             DOLL AND HER FRIENDS;                      OR        Memoirs of the Lady Seraphina.               BY THE AUTHOR OF "LETTERS FROM MADRAS," "HISTORICAL CHARADES,"                   ETC. ETC. WITH FOUR ILLUSTRATIONS BY HABLOT K. BROWNE,         ENGRAVED BY BAKER AND SMITH.                    BOSTON:          TICKNOR, REED, AND FIELDS.                   MDCCCLII.   PRINTED BY THURSTON, TORRY, AND EMERSON.PREFACE.My principal intention, or rather aim, in writing this little Book, wasto amuse Children by a story founded on one of their favoritediversions, and to inculcate a few such minor morals as my little plotmight be strong enough to carry; chiefly the domestic happiness producedby kind tempers and consideration for others. And further, I wished tosay a word in favor of that good old-fashioned plaything, the Doll,which one now sometimes hears decried by sensible people who have nochildren of their own.The Doll and Her Friends.CHAPTER I.I belong to a race, the sole end of whose existence is to give pleasureto others. None will deny the goodness of such an end, and I flattermyself most persons will allow that we amply fulfil it. Few of thefemale sex especially but will acknowledge, with either the smile or thesigh called forth by early recollections, that much of their youthfulhappiness was due to our presence; and some will even go so far as toattribute to our influence many a habit of housewifery, neatness, andindustry, which ornaments their riper years.But to our _influence_, our silent, unconscious influence alone, cansuch advantages be ascribed; for neither example nor precept are in ourpower; our race cannot boast of intellectual endowments; and thoughthere are few qualities, moral or mental, that have not in their turnbeen imputed to us by partial friends, truth obliges me to confess thatthey exist rather in the minds of our admirers than in our own persons.We are a race of mere dependents; some might even call us slaves. Unableto change our place, or move hand or foot at our own pleasure, andforced to submit to every caprice of our possessors, we cannot be saidto have even a will of our own. But every condition has its share ofgood and evil, and I have often considered my helplessness anddependence as mere trifles compared with the troubles to which poorsensitive human beings are subject.Pain, sickness, or fatigue I never knew. While a fidgetty child cannotkeep still for two minutes at a time, I sit contentedly for daystogether in the same attitude; and I have before now seen one of thoseirritable young mortals cry at a scratch, while I was hearing needlesdrawn in and out of every part of my body, or sitting with a pin runstraight through my heart, calmly congratulating myself on being freefrom the inconveniences of flesh and blood.Of negative merits I possess a good share. I am never out of humor,never impatient, never mischievous, noisy, nor intrusive; and though Iand my fellows cannot lay claim to brilliant powers either in word ordeed, we may boast of the same qualifications as our wittiest king, forcertainly none of us ever 'said a foolish thing,' if she 'never did awise one.'Personal beauty I might almost, without vanity, call the 'badge of allour tribe.' Our very name is seldom mentioned without the epithet_pretty_; and in my own individual case I may say that I have alwaysbeen considered pleasing and elegant, though others have surpassed me insize and grandeur.But our most striking characteristic is our power of inspiring strongattachment. The love bestowed on us by our possessors is proof againsttime, familiarity, and misfortune:    'Age cannot wither' us, 'nor custom stale'    Our 'infinite variety.'With no trace of our original beauty left,--dress in tatters, complexiondefaced, features undistinguishable, our very limbs mutilated, the merewreck of our former selves,--who has not seen one of us still thedelight and solace of some tender young heart; the confidant of itsfancies, and the soother of its sorrows; preferred to all newerclaimants, however high their pretensions; the still unrivalledfavorite, in spite of the laughter of the nursery and the quiet contemptof the schoolroom?Young and gentle reader, your sympathy or your sagacity has doubtlesssuggested to you my name. I am, as you guess, a DOLL; and though not adoll of any peculiar pretensions, I flatter myself that my life may notbe quite without interest to the young lovers of my race, and in thishope I venture to submit my memoirs to your indulgent consideration.I am but a small doll; not one of those splendid specimens of wax,modelled from the Princess Royal, with distinct fingers and toes, eyesthat shut, and tongues that wag. No; such I have only contemplated froma respectful distance as I lay on my stall in the bazaar, while theytowered sublime in the midst of the toys, the wonder and admiration ofevery passing child. I am not even one of those less magnificent, butstill dignified, leathern-skinned individuals, requiring clothes to takeoff and put on, and a cradle to sleep in, with sheets, blankets, andevery thing complete. Neither can I found my claim to notice upon anything odd or unusual in my appearance: I am not a negro doll, with widemouth and woolly hair; nor a doll with a gutta-percha face, which can betwisted into all kinds of grimaces.I am a simple English doll, about six inches high, with jointed limbsand an enamel face, a slim waist and upright figure, an amiable smile,and intelligent eye, and hair dressed in the first style of fashion. Inever thought myself vain, but I own that in my youth I did pique myselfupon my hair. There was but one opinion about _that_. I have often heardeven grown-up people remark, 'How ingeniously that doll's wig is put on,and how nicely it is arranged!' while at the same time my rising vanitywas crushed by the insinuation that I had an absurd smirk or aridiculous stare.However, the opinions of human beings of mature age never much disturbedme. The world was large enough for them and me; and I could contentedlysee them turn to their own objects of interest, while I awaited in calmsecurity the unqualified praise of those whose praise alone was valuableto me--their children and grand-children.I first opened my eyes to the light in the Pantheon Bazaar. How I camethere I know not; my conscious existence dates only from the moment inwhich a silver-paper covering was removed from my face, and the worldburst upon my view. A feeling of importance was the first that arose inmy mind. As the hand that held me turned me from side to side, I lookedabout. Dolls were before me, dolls behind, and dolls on each side. For aconsiderable time I could see nothing else. The world seemed made fordolls. But by degrees, as my powers of vision strengthened, my horizonextended, and I perceived that portions of space were allotted to manyother objects. I descried, at various distances, aids to amusements inendless succession,--balls, bats, battledores, boxes, bags, and baskets;carts, cradles, and cups and saucers. I did not then know any thing ofthe alphabet, and I cannot say that I have quite mastered it even now;but if I were learned enough, I am sure I could go from A to Z, asinitial letters of the wonders with which I soon made acquaintance.Not that I at once became aware of the uses, or even the names, of all Isaw. No one took the trouble to teach me; and it was only by dint of myown intense observation that I gained any knowledge at all. I did not atfirst even know that I was a doll. But I made the most of opportunities,and my mind gradually expanded.I first learned to distinguish human beings. Their powers of motion madea decided difference between them and the other surrounding objects, andnaturally my attention was early turned towards the actions of theshopwoman on whose stall I lived. She covered me and my companions witha large cloth every night, and restored the daylight to us in themorning. We were all perfectly helpless without her, and absolutelyunder her control. At her will the largest top hummed, or was silent;the whip cracked, or lay harmlessly by the side of the horse. She movedus from place to place, and exhibited or hid us at her pleasure; but shewas always so extremely careful of our health and looks, and her lifeseemed so entirely devoted to us and to our advantage, that I oftendoubted whether she was our property or we hers. Her habits varied solittle from day to day, that after watching her for a reasonable time, Ifelt myself perfectly acquainted with _her_, and in a condition to makeobservations upon others of her race.One day a lady and a little girl stopped at our stall.'Oh, what a splendid doll,' exclaimed the child, pointing to the waxenbeauty which outshone the rest of our tribe. It was the first time I hadheard the word _Doll_, though I was well acquainted with the illustriousindividual to whom it was applied; and it now flashed upon my mind, withpride and pleasure, that, however insignificant in comparison, I too wasa doll. But I had not time to think very deeply about my name and naturejust then, as I wished to listen to the conversation of the two humanbeings.'May I buy her?' said the little girl.'Can you afford it?' asked the lady in return. 'Remember your intentionsfor your brother.''Perhaps I have money enough for both,' answered the child. 'How muchdoes she cost?''Seven shillings,' said the shopwoman, taking the doll from her place,and displaying her pretty face and hands to the utmost advantage.'I have three half-crowns,' said the little girl.'But if you spend seven shillings on the doll,' answered the lady, 'youwill only have sixpence left for the paint-box.''What does a paint-box cost?' asked the child.'We have them of all prices,' replied the shopkeeper; 'from sixpence toseven shillings.'The little girl examined several with great care, and stood some time indeliberation; at last she said, 'I don't think Willy would like asixpenny one.''It would be of no use to him,' answered the lady. 'He draws well enoughto want better colors. If you gave it to him, he would thank you and tryto seem pleased, but he would not really care for it. However, he doesnot know that you thought of making him a birthday present, so you areat liberty to spend your money as you like.''Would he care for a seven shilling one?' asked the little girl.'Yes; that is exactly what he wants.''Then he shall have it,' exclaimed the good-natured little sister. 'Poordear Willy, how many more amusements I have than he!'She bought the best paint-box, and received sixpence in change.'Is there any thing else I can show you?' asked the shopkeeper.'No, thank you,' she replied; and turning to the elder lady, she said,'May we go home at once, Mama? It would take me a long time to choosewhat I shall spend my sixpence in, and I should like to give Willy hispaint-box directly.''By all means,' answered the lady; 'we will lose no time; and I willbring you again to spend the sixpence whenever you please.'Without one backward glance towards the beautiful doll, the childtripped away by the side of her companion, looking the brightest andhappiest of her kind.I pondered long upon this circumstance; how long I cannot say, for dollsare unable to measure time, they can only date from any particularlystriking epochs. For instance, we can say, 'Such an affair happenedbefore I lost my leg;' or, 'Such an event took place before my new wigwas put on;' but of the intricate divisions known to mortals by thenames of hours, days, months, &c., we have no idea.However, I meditated on the kind little sister during what appeared tome a long but not tedious period, for I was gratified at gaining someinsight into the qualities proper to distinguish the human race.Readiness to show kindness, and a preference of others' interests to herown, were virtues which I easily perceived in the little girl'sconduct; but one thing perplexed me sadly. I could not understand why adoll would not have answered her kind intentions as well as a paint-box;why could she not have bought the doll which she admired so much, andhave given _that_ to her brother.My thoughts were still engaged with this subject, when a boy approachedthe stall. Boys were new characters to me, and I was glad of theopportunity to observe one. He did not bestow a look on the dolls andother toys, but asked for a box of carpenter's tools. The shopkeeperdived into some hidden recess under the counter, and produced aclumsy-looking chest, the merits of which I could not discover; but theboy pronounced it to be 'just the thing,' and willingly paid down itsprice. I followed him with my eyes as he walked about with his great boxunder his arm, looking from side to side, till he caught sight ofanother boy rather younger than himself, advancing from an oppositecorner.'Why, Geoffrey,' exclaimed my first friend, 'where have you been allthis time? I have been hunting every where for you.'Geoffrey did not immediately answer, his mouth being, as I perceived,quite full. When at last he could open his lips, he said, 'Will you havea cheesecake?''No, thank you,' replied his friend. 'We must go home to dinner so soon,that you will scarcely have time to choose your things. Where _have_ youbeen?''At the pastrycook's stall,' answered Geoffrey; 'and I must go backagain before I can buy any thing. I left my five shillings there to bechanged.'The boys returned together to the stall, and I saw its mistress hand asmall coin to Geoffrey.'Where is the rest?' said he.'That is your change, sir,' she replied.'Why, you don't mean that those two or three tarts and jellies cost fourand sixpence!' he exclaimed, turning as red as the rosiest doll at myside.'I think you will find it correct, sir,' answered the shopkeeper. 'Twojellies, sixpence each, make one shilling; two custards, sixpence each,two shillings; a bottle of ginger-beer, threepence, two and threepence;one raspberry cream, sixpence, two and ninepence; three gooseberrytarts, threepence, three shillings; two strawberry tarts, three andtwopence; two raspberry ditto, three and fourpence; four cheesecakes,three and eightpence; two Bath buns, four shillings; and one lemon ice,four and sixpence.''What a bother!' said Geoffrey, as he pocketed the small remains of hisfortune. 'I wish I could give her some of the tarts back again, for theyweren't half so nice as they looked, except just the first one or two.''Because you were only hungry for the first one or two,' said the otherboy. 'But it can't be helped now; come and spend the sixpence better.''There won't be any thing worth buying for sixpence,' said Geoffreygloomily, as he shuffled in a lazy manner towards my stall.'I want a spade,' said he.Several were produced, but they cost two shillings or half-a-crown.There were little wooden spades for sixpence; but from those he turnedwith contempt, saying they were only fit for babies. Nothing at ourtable suited him, and he walked towards our opposite neighbour, who soldbooks, maps, &c. On his asking for a dissected map, all the countries ofthe world were speedily offered to his choice; but alas! the price wasagain the obstacle. The cheapest map was half-a-crown; and Geoffrey'ssixpence would buy nothing but a childish puzzle of Old Mother Hubbard.Geoffrey said it was a great shame that every thing should be eitherdear or stupid.'Can't you lend me some money, Ned?' continued he.'I can't, indeed,' replied the other; 'mine all went in this box oftools. Suppose you don't spend the sixpence at all now, but keep it tillyou get some more.''No, I won't do that; I hate saving my money.'So saying, he wandered from stall to stall, asking the price of everything, as if his purse was as full as his stomach.'How much is that sailor kite?' 'Two shillings, sir.'--'How much is thatbat?' 'Seven and sixpence.'--'How much is that wooden box with secretdrawer?' 'Three shillings.''How provoking!' he exclaimed. 'I want heaps of things, and this stupidsixpence is no good at all.''It is better than nothing,' said Edward. 'It is not every day thatone's aunt sends one five shillings, to spend in the bazaar; and incommon times sixpence is not to be despised. After all, there are plentyof things it will buy. Do you want a top?''No; I've got four.''Garden seeds?''What is the use of them, when I can't get a spade?''Steel pens? You said this morning you could not write with quills.''I don't like buying those kind of things with my own money.''A box? Yesterday you wanted a box.''I don't care for boxes that won't lock, and I can't get one with a lockand key for sixpence.''A knife?''Sixpenny knives have only one blade; I want two.''Sealing-wax? wafers? a penholder? a paint-box? India-rubber? pencils?''Stupid things!''A ball? You might have a very good ball.''Not a cricket ball; and I don't care for any other.''What a particular fellow you are! I am sure I could always findsomething to spend sixpence in. String? One is always wanting string.You may have a good ball of whipcord.''These sort of places don't sell it.''Then, I say again, keep your money till you want it.''No, that I'll never do, when I came on purpose to spend it. After all,the only thing I can think of,' continued Geoffrey, after a pause, 'isto go back to the pastrycook's. There was one kind of tart I did nottaste, and perhaps it would be nicer than the others. I'll give you oneif you like.''No, thank you; I am much obliged to you all the same; but I won't helpyou to spend your money in that way. Don't buy any more tarts. Come andwalk about; there are plenty more shops to look at.'They sauntered on, but Geoffrey, by various turns, worked his way backto the pastrycook's; and as no persuasions could then bring him away,Edward walked off, not choosing, as he said, to encourage him.Presently I saw a tall gentleman enter the bazaar, and I wondered whathe would buy. I did not then understand the difference between grown-uppeople and children, and as he approached my stall, I could not repressa hope that he would buy _me_. But his quick eye glanced over the tableswithout resting on any of the toys.'Can I show you any thing, sir?' said my mistress.'No, I am much obliged to you,' he answered, with a pleasant smile. 'Iam only in search of some young people who, I dare say, have been bettercustomers than I. Ah, here they are,' he continued, as the two boys ofwhom I had taken so much notice ran up to him from different ends of theroom.'Well, boys,' said he, 'what have you bought? Must we hire a wagon tocarry your property home?''Not quite,' answered Edward. 'I have bought a wagon-load of amusement,but I can carry it home well enough myself; I have spent all my money inthis box of tools.''A very sensible and useful purchase,' said the gentleman; 'they willgive you plenty of pleasant employment. The only objection is, that theyare likely to be lost or broken at school.''I do not mean to take them to school, papa. I shall use them in theholidays, and leave them with Willy when I go back to school; that wasone reason why I bought them. Willy could do a good deal ofcarpentering on his sofa.'[Illustration: Page 25.]'True, my boy, and a kind thought. They will be a great amusement topoor Willy, and he will take good care of them for you.''Now, Geoffrey, how have you invested your capital? I hope you havefound a strong spade. It is fine weather for gardening.''No, I haven't,' stammered Geoffrey.'Well, what have you bought?''I don't know,' said Geoffrey.'Do you mean that you have not spent your money yet? Make haste, then,for I can only allow you five minutes more. I expected to find you readyto go home. Be brisk; there is every thing on that stall that the heartof boy can wish,' said the gentleman, pointing to my abode.But Geoffrey did not move. 'I don't want any thing,' said he at last.'What a fortunate boy!' said the gentleman; but he presently added,'Have you lost your money?''No.''Show it to me.'Geoffrey slowly produced his sixpence, almost hidden in the palm of hishand.'Where is the rest?' asked the gentleman. 'Have you spent it?''Yes.''And nothing to show for it? Nothing?'--and the gentleman looked at theboy more narrowly. 'Nothing,' said he again, 'except a few crumbs ofpie-crust on your waistcoat? Oh, Geoffrey!'There was a short silence, and the boy colored a good deal; at last hesaid, 'It was my own money.''You will wish it was your own again before long, I dare say,' said thegentleman. 'However, we must hope you will be wiser in time. Come homenow to dinner.''I don't want any dinner,' said Geoffrey.'Probably not, but Edward and I do. We have not dined on tarts; and Idare say Ned is as hungry as I am.'So saying, he led the way towards the door, leaving me, as usual,pondering over what had passed. One word used by the gentleman made agreat impression on me--USEFUL.What could that mean? Various considerations were suggested by thequestion. Some things, it seemed, were useful, others not; and whatpuzzled me most was, that the very same things appeared to be useful tosome people, and not to others. For instance, the sixpenny paint-box,which had been rejected as useless to Willy, was bought soon afterwardsby a small boy, who said it would be the most useful toy he had.Could this be the case with every thing? Was it possible that everything properly applied might have its use, and that its value dependedupon those who used it? If so, why was Geoffrey blamed for spending hismoney in tarts? _He_ liked them. Perhaps he had plenty of food at home,and that uselessness consisted in a thing's not being really wanted. Irevolved the subject in my mind, and tried to discover the use of everything I saw, but I was not always successful. The subject wasperplexing; and gradually all my thoughts became fixed on the point ofmost importance to myself--namely, my own use.How changed were my ideas since the time when I imagined the world tobelong to dolls! Their whole race now seemed to be of very smallimportance; and as for my individual self, I could not be sure that Ihad any use at all, and still less _what_, or _to whom_.Day after day I lay on my counter unnoticed, except by the shopwoman whocovered us up at night, and re-arranged us in the morning; and even thisshe did with such an indifferent air, that I could not flatter myself Iwas of the smallest use to _her_. Every necessary care was bestowed uponme in common with my companions; but I sighed for the tender attentionsthat I sometimes saw lavished by children upon their dolls, and wishedthat my mistress would nurse and caress me in the same manner.She never seemed to think of such a thing. She once said I was dusty,and whisked a brush over my face; but that was the only separate mark ofinterest I ever received from her. I had no reasonable ground ofcomplaint, but I began to grow weary of the insipidity of my life, andto ask myself whether this could be my only destiny. Was I never to beof use to any body? From time to time other toys were carried away. Manya giddy top and lively ball left my side in childish company, anddisappeared through those mysterious gates by which the busy human raceentered our calm seclusion.At last even dolls had their day. The beautiful waxen princess no longergraced our dominions. She was bought by an elderly lady for a birthdaypresent to a little grand-daughter; and on the very same day the 'oldfamiliar faces' of six dolls who had long shared my counter vanishedfrom my sight, one after another being bought and carried away.I was sorry to lose them, though while we lived together we had had ourlittle miffs and jealousies. I had sometimes thought that the one withthe red shoes was always sticking out her toes; that she of the flaxenringlets was ready to let every breath of wind blow them over herneighbours' faces; that another with long legs took up more room thanher share, much to my inconvenience. But now that they were all gone,and I never could hope to see them again, I would gladly have squeezedmyself into as small compass as the baby doll in the walnut-shell, inorder to make room for them once more.One thing, however, was satisfactory: dolls certainly had their use.Seven had been bought, and therefore why not an eighth? I had beensinking almost into a state of despondency, but now my hopes revived andmy spirits rose. My turn might come.And my turn did come. Every circumstance of that eventful day is deeplyimpressed on my memory. I was as usual employed in making remarks uponthe passing crowd, and wondering what might be the use of every body Isaw, when I perceived the lady and the little girl who had been almostmy first acquaintances among the human race. As they approached mystall, I heard the mama say, 'Have you decided what to buy with thesixpence?''Oh yes, quite,' answered the child; 'I am going to buy a _sixpennydoll_.'The words thrilled through me; her eyes seemed fixed on mine, and thesixpence was between her fingers. I imagined myself bought. But shecontinued: 'I think, if you don't mind the trouble, I should like to goround the bazaar first, to see which are the prettiest.''By all means,' replied the lady; and they walked on, carrying all myhopes with them.I had often fancied myself the prettiest doll of my size in the place;but such conceit would not support me now. I felt that there weredozens, nay scores, who more than equalled me; and all discontentednotions of my neglected merit now sunk before the dread that I hadreally no merit to neglect.I began also to have some idea of what was meant by time. My past lifehad glided away so imperceptibly, that I did not know whether it hadbeen long or short; but I learnt to count every moment while those twomortals were walking round the bazaar.I strained my eyes to catch sight of them again; but when at last theyre-appeared, I scarcely dared to look, for fear of seeing a doll in thechild's hands. But no; her hands were empty, except for the sixpencestill between her finger and thumb.They came nearer--they stopped at another stall; I could not hear whatthey said, but they turned away, and once more stood opposite to me. Thechild remained for some moments as silent as myself, and then exclaimed,'After all, Mama, I don't think there are any prettier dolls than thesein the whole room.''What do you say to this one, Miss?' said our proprietor, taking up agreat full-dressed Dutch doll, and laying her on the top of those of mysize and class, completely hiding the poor little victims under herstiff muslin and broad ribbons.But on the child's answering, 'No, thank you, I only want a sixpennydoll not dressed,' the Dutch giantess was removed, and we once moreasserted our humble claims.'That seems to me a very pretty one,' said the mama, pointing to my nextneighbour. The child for a moment hesitated, but presently exclaimed ina joyful tone, 'Oh no, _this_ is the beauty of all; this little darlingwith the real hair and blue ribbon in it; I will take this one, if youplease.' And before I could be sure that she meant me, I was removedfrom my place, wrapped up in paper, and consigned to her hands. Mylong-cherished wishes were fulfilled, and I was bought. At first I couldscarcely believe it. Notwithstanding all my planning and lookingforward to this event, now that it really happened, I could notunderstand it. My senses seemed gone. What had so long occupied my mindwas the work of a moment; but that moment was irrevocable, and my fatewas decided. In my little mistress' hands I passed the boundaries of theworld of toys, and entered upon a new state of existence.CHAPTER II.A very different life now opened before me. I had no longer any pretencefor complaining of neglect. My young mistress devoted every spare momentto the enjoyment of my company, and set no limits to her caresses andcompliments; while I in return regarded her with all the gratitude andaffection which a doll can feel. My faculties as well as my feelingswere called into fresh exercise; for though I had no longer the widerange of observation afforded by the daily crowd of strangers in thebazaar, I had the new advantage of making intimate acquaintance with asmall circle of friends.Having hitherto been so completely without any position in the world, Icould not at first help feeling rather shy at the idea of taking myplace as member of a family; and it was therefore a relief to find thatmy lot was not cast amongst total strangers, but that I had already someslight clue to the characters of my future companions.My mistress, whose name was Rose, was sister to the Willy for whom shehad bought the paint-box, and also to Edward, the purchaser of thetools. Geoffrey, the lover of tarts, was a cousin on a visit to them forthe holidays; and they had also an elder sister named Margaret; besidestheir papa and mama, whom I had seen in the bazaar.The first of the family to whom I was introduced was Willy, and I soonbecame much interested in him. He was a pale thin boy, who spent the dayon a sofa, to and from which he was carried in the morning and at night.In fine weather he went out in a wheel-chair; but he was unable to move,without help, and was obliged to endure many privations. Though he oftenlooked suffering and weary, he was cheerful and patient, and alwaysseemed pleased to hear other children describe enjoyments in which hecould not share. Every body was fond of Willy, and anxious to amuse andcomfort him. All that happened out of doors was told to him; all thekindest friends and pleasantest visitors came to see him; the new bookswere brought to him to read first; the best fruit and flowers always setapart for him; and all the in-door occupations arranged as much aspossible with a view to his convenience. He and his little sister Rosewere the dearest friends in the world, and certain to take part inwhatever interested each other. As soon as Rose brought me home from thePantheon, she ran up stairs with me to Willy, whom I then saw for thefirst time, sitting on the sofa with his feet up, and a table beforehim, on which stood several books, and my old acquaintances thepaint-box and the chest of tools.'Look at this, Willy; is not this pretty?' exclaimed Rose, laying medown on his open book.Willy looked up with a pleasant smile: 'Very pretty,' he answered. 'Isuppose she is to be the lady of the new house; and with Ned's tools, Ihope to make some furniture worth her acceptance.''Oh, thank you, Willy dear. And will you help me to choose a name forher? What do you think the prettiest name you know?''_Rose_,' answered Willy, laughing; 'but I suppose that will not do. Idare say you want something very fine and out-of-the-way.''As fine as can be,' replied Rose; 'I have been thinking of Seraphina orWilhelmina: which do you like best?''Call it Molly,' cried Edward, who just then entered the room; 'Mollyand Betty are the best names: no nonsense in them.''Call it Stupid Donkey,' mumbled a voice behind him; and Geoffreyadvanced, his mouth as usual full of something besides words. 'Have anynuts, Willy?' he asked, holding out a handful.'No, thank you,' answered Willy; 'I must not eat them.''I wouldn't be you, I know,' said Geoffrey, cracking one between histeeth; 'never let to eat any thing but what's wholesome, and alwaysreading, or doing something stupid. I believe you are helping Rose toplay with that doll now. Put it into the fire; that is the way to treatdolls. Stupid things. I hate 'em!''Pray do not touch it, Geoffrey,' said Rose.'Leave it alone, Geff,' said Edward. 'You have your things, and Rose hashers. I don't see the fun of dolls myself, but she does, and nobodyshall interfere with her while I am here to protect her. Just rememberthat, will you?''The d-o-ll!' said Geoffrey, drawling the word, and making a face as ifthe pronouncing it turned him quite sick. 'Oh, the sweet doll! Perhapsyou would like to stay and play with Rose, and Willy, and the d-o-ll,instead of coming out to cricket.''Nonsense, you foolish fellow, you know better,' answered Edward. 'But Iwon't have Rose bullied; and what's more, I won't have Willy quizzed. Ishould like to see you or me pass such an examination as Willy could ifhe were at school. Why, he can learn as much in a day as we do in aweek.''Well, he is welcome to learn as much as he likes,' said Geoffrey; 'andlet's you and I go and play. What stupid nuts these are! I've almostcracked one of my teeth with cracking them.'The boys ran off; and presently there came into the room the papa andmama, whom I already knew, and a young lady very like Rose, but older. Ifound she was Margaret, the eldest sister. They inquired whether Willywanted any thing before they went out; and Margaret fetched a drawingthat he wished to copy, while his father and mother wheeled his sofa andtable nearer the window, that he might have more light. When he was madequite comfortable, they told Rose that she might stay and take care ofhim till they returned; and she said she would bring her box of scrapsand begin dressing me. Then I came in for my share of notice, and hadevery reason to be satisfied with the praises bestowed on me. The mamasaid that I deserved very neatly-made clothes; the papa, that my hairwould be a pattern for Margaret's; and Margaret said I was charming, andthat she would make me a pink satin gown.They admired the name _Seraphina_, though the papa suggested variousothers which he thought might suit Rose's taste,--Sophonisba, Cleopatra,Araminta, Dulcinea, Ethelinda, &c.; but as she remained steady to herfirst choice, the LADY SERAPHINA was decided to be thenceforth my nameand title.And now began the real business of my life. I was no longer doomed tofret at being of no use, for the object of my existence was plainenough, namely, to give innocent recreation to my young mistress whenat leisure from her more serious employments. Every day she spent somehours in study with her mother or sister; and she would fly to me forrelief between her lessons, and return to them with more vigor afterpassing a little time in my refreshing company. She often showed hertasks to me, and discussed their difficulties. I think she repeated themultiplication-table to me nearly a hundred times, while I sat on the_Tutor's Assistant_ waiting for the recurrence of the fatal words,'Seven times nine.' Day after day she could get no farther; but as soonas she came to 'Seven times nine,' I was turned off the book, which hadto be consulted for the answer.At last, one day she came running into the room in great glee,exclaiming, 'I have done the multiplication-table. I have said it quiteright, sixty-three and all. I made no mistake even in dodging. And _you_helped me, my darling Lady Seraphina. I never could have learned itperfect if you had not heard me say it so often. And now, look at yourrewards. Margaret has made you a bonnet, and Willy has made you anarm-chair.'Beautiful, indeed, was the bonnet, and commodious the arm-chair; and Iwore the one and reclined in the other all the time Rose was learningthe French auxiliary verbs _etre_ and _avoir_. I flattered myself I wasof as much use in them as in the multiplication-table; but I do notrecollect receiving any particular recompense. Indeed, after a littletime, it would have been difficult to know what to give me, for Ipossessed every thing that a doll's heart could wish, or her headimagine. Such a variety of elegant dresses as Rose made for me wouldhave been the envy of all my old friends in the bazaar. I had gowns ofpink satin and white satin; blue silk and yellow silk; colored muslinswithout number, and splendid white lace. Bonnets enough to furnish amilliner's shop were mine; but I was not so partial to them as to mygowns, because they tumbled my hair.I believe a good many of my possessions were presents from Margaret toRose on account of perfect lessons; but in course of time, I ceased tosuperintend Rose's studies. Margaret said that I interrupted the courseof history; and the mama said that Rose was old enough to learn herlessons without bringing her play into them, and that I must be put awayduring school hours.Though I did not think that the fault was altogether mine, I quiteacquiesced in the wisdom of this decree; for during Rose's lastreading-lesson she had stopped so often to ask me which I liked best,Lycurgus or Solon, Pericles or Alcibiades, &c., that Margaret was almostout of patience. And though I made no answer, and had really no choiceat all between the characters, I felt that I rather hindered business.I was therefore now left to myself for several hours in the morning; butI found ample and pleasant employment in surveying the comforts andbeauties of my habitation. For I was not forced to perform the part ofan insignificant pigmy in the vast abodes of the colossal race of man: Ipossessed a beautiful little house proportioned to my size, pleasantlysituated on a table in the furthest corner of the schoolroom, andcommanding an extensive view of the whole apartment.I must describe my house at full length. It had been originally, as Iheard, a mere rough packing-case; but what of that? The best brick housein London was once but clay in the fields; and my packing-case was nowpainted outside and papered inside, and fitted up in a manner every waysuitable for the occupation of a doll of distinction.My drawing-room was charming; light and cheerful, the walls papered withwhite and gold, and the floor covered with a drab carpet worked withflowers of every hue. Rose worked the carpet herself under thedirections of Margaret, who prevailed on her to learn worsted-work formy sake. So there, again, how useful I was! From the ceiling hung abrilliant glass chandelier, a birthday present from Edward to Rose; andthe mantel-piece was adorned by a splendid mirror cut out of a brokenlooking-glass by Willy, and framed by his hands. I cannot say that Willyever seemed to care for me personally, but he took considerable interestin my upholstery, and much of my handsomest furniture was manufacturedby him. He made my dining-room and drawing-room tables; the frames of mychairs, which were covered with silk by Margaret; my sofa, and myfour-post bedstead; and it was he who painted the floor-cloth in myhall, and the capital picture of the Queen and Prince Albert which hungover the dining-room chimney-piece. I had a snug bed-room, containing abed with pink curtains, a toilette-table, with a handsome looking-glass,pincushion, and rather large brush and comb; a washing-stand,towel-horse, chest of drawers, and wardrobe. But the last two, I mustconfess, were rather for show than for use. They were French-polished,and in appearance convenient as well as handsome, but in reality toosmall to hold my clothes. A few minor articles of dress were kept inthem; but the mass of my gorgeous attire was always in larger boxes andtrunks belonging to my mistress; her work-box, for instance, and at onetime her desk; but her mama turned all my gowns out of the latter whenshe banished me from the lessons, and desired that, for the future, onlywriting materials should be kept in it. 'Every thing in its properplace, Rose,' I heard her say. 'You have plenty of little boxes fordoll's clothes; and your doll ought to teach you to be more tidy insteadof less so.'My dining-room was well adapted for all the purposes of hospitality,being furnished with a substantial dining-table, chairs, and asideboard, on which there always stood two trays, one filled withdecanters and wine-glasses, and the other with knives and forks.My kitchen was resplendent with saucepans, kettles, pots and pans, andplates and dishes, ranged upon the dresser, or hung from the walls. Ajoint of meat was always roasting before the fire, and a cook of my ownrace appeared to spend her life in basting it, for I never failed tofind her thus employed when Rose was so kind as to take me into mykitchen. There was also a footman, who sat for ever in the hall; and Iwas inclined to consider him rather wanting in respect, till Idiscovered that, owing to a broken leg, he was unable to stand. I didnot quite comprehend the use of my servants, as Rose herself did all thework of my house; but she said they were indispensable, and that if itwere not for want of room, I should have a great many more.Besides all these arrangements for my comfort in-doors, I possessed abeautiful open phaeton, emblazoned with the royal arms of England, anddrawn by four piebald horses with long tails, so spirited that theynever left off prancing. Every day, after school-time, Rose broughtthis equipage to my door; and the four horses stood with their eightfront feet in the air while I was dressed for my drive. Then, attired inmy last new bonnet and cloak, I sat in state in my carriage, and wasdrawn round and round the room by Rose, till she said I was tired. Shemade many attempts to persuade the lame footman to stand on thefootboard behind, but she never could manage it. He was a very helplesscreature; and I am not quite certain that he even did his best, littleas that might be. The first time Rose set him up behind the carriage, hetumbled head over heels into the middle of it, and stood there on hishead till she picked him out again. Then he fell off behind, then on oneside, and then on the other, till she was quite tired of his foolishtricks, and left him to sit quietly and stupidly in his old place in thehall.I lived in great comfort in my pleasant house, and being of a cheerful,contented temper, never felt lonely, although left to myself duringgreat part of the day; for Rose was very obedient to her Mama's orders,and even if now and then tempted to forget the regulation herself, Willywas always at hand to remind her, and help to fix her attention on herbusiness. But when it was all over, she flew to me with redoubledpleasure.One day she said to me, 'My dear Seraphina, I am afraid you must be verydull, alone all the morning.' I longed to assure her of the contrary;but not having the gift of speech, I could only listen submissivelywhile she continued: 'It is a pity that you should sit doing nothing andwasting your time; so I have brought you some books, which you are toread while I am at my lessons; and I shall expect you to learn just asmuch as I do.'So saying, she seated me on my sofa, and placing a table with the booksbefore me, 'Look,' continued she, 'I have made them for you myself, andcovered them with these pretty red and green papers. This is yourEnglish History, and this is your French Grammar; and here is aGeography Book, and here is a History of Rome. Now read attentively, anddo not let your thoughts wander; and be very careful not to dogs-ear theleaves: that always looks like a dunce. And mind you sit upright,' addedshe, looking back, as she left the room in obedience to a summons fromher sister.I obeyed to the best of my power. To be sure, I did not know which wasgeography and which was grammar; and English and Roman history were bothalike to me. But I did as I was bid. I sat upright in the placeappointed me, staring as hard as I could at the open pages; and my worstenemy could not accuse me of dogs-earing a single leaf.When my mistress returned, she pleased me much by calling me a very goodgirl, and saying that if I continued to take so much pains, I could notfail to improve. On hearing this, Willy laughed, and said he hoped thatthat was a duplicate of Margaret's last speech; and Rose looked veryhappy, and answered that not only Margaret, but Mama had said the same.This was not my only duplicate of Rose's adventures. My educationappeared to be conducted precisely on the same plan as her own. Beforelong, she brought a little pianoforte and set it up in my drawing-room.I thought it rather hid the pretty paper, but it was a handsome piece offurniture.'Now, Lady Seraphina,' said Rose, 'I am obliged to practise for an hourevery day, and you must do the same. See what a pretty piano I havegiven you. You need not mind its being meant for a housewife andpincushion; the notes are marked, and that is all you want. Now practiseyour scales, and be very careful to play right notes and count yourtime.'I sat at my piano with all due diligence, but I am sorry to say that myprogress did not seem satisfactory. One day Rose said that she was sureI had forgotten to count; and another day, that I hurried the easy barsand slackened the difficult ones; then she accused me of not caringwhether I played right notes or wrong, and torturing her ear by my falsechords; then I banged the notes till I broke the strings: in short,there was no end to her complaints, till at last she wound them all upby declaring that both she and I hated music, and that if Mama andMargaret would take her advice, we should both leave it off.But still I practised regularly, and so, I suppose, did Rose; andgradually her reproaches diminished, and she grew more contented withme; and we both persevered, till she said that really, after all, Iseemed to have a good ear, and to be likely to make a very respectableplayer.'But you know it all depends upon yourself, Seraphina; your presentimprovement is the result of pains and practice. Pains and practice willdo any thing.'It was fortunate for me that I had so careful a superintendent as Rose;for unless she had kept a constant watch over me, there is no sayinghow many awkward habits I might unconsciously have contracted. But shecured me of poking my head forward, of standing on one leg, of tiltingmy chair, of meddling with things that were not my own, of leaningagainst the furniture while I was speaking, of putting my elbows on thetable, of biting my nails, of spilling my tea, and of making crumbs onthe floor.I cannot say I was myself aware either of the faults or their cure; butI think one seldom does notice one's own faults, and therefore it is agreat advantage to have kind friends who will point them out to us. Ibelieved Rose when she told me of mine; so I had a right to believe herwhen she gave me the agreeable assurance of their cure, and to indulgethe hope that I was becoming a pleasing, well-bred little doll.On one mortifying occasion, however, I must own that Rose's anxiety formy always following in her steps was the cause of a serious injury tome. She remarked that I had got into a horrid way of kicking off myshoes while I was learning my poetry; and she thought the best curewould be to make me wear sandals. I observed that she was sewing sandalsto her own shoes at the time, and she consulted Willy about some meansof doing the same by mine. Willy held me head downwards, and examined myfeet. My shoes were painted, therefore sewing was out of the question.He advised glue. This was tried, but it came through the thin narrowribbon of which my sandals were to be made, and looked very dirty. Theywere taken off; but the operation had spoilt the delicacy of my whitestockings, and Rose said it was impossible to let me go such an untidyfigure; we must try some other way. She asked Willy to lend her agimlet, that she might bore holes at the sides of my feet, and glue theribbon into them, so as not to show the glue. Willy said she was welcometo the gimlet, but that he advised her to leave it alone, for that shewould only break my feet. But Rose would not be dissuaded, and beganboring.It was on this occasion that I most peculiarly felt the advantage ofthat insensibility to pain which distinguishes my race. What mortalcould have borne such an infliction without struggling and screaming? I,on the contrary, took it all in good part, and showed no signs offeeling even at the fatal moment when my foot snapped in two, and Rose,with a face of utter dismay, held up my own toes before my eyes.'Oh, my poor Seraphina!' she exclaimed, 'what shall we do?''Glue it on again,' said Willy. 'You had better have taken my advice atfirst, but now you must make the best of it. Glue is your only friend.'So Rose glued the halves of my foot together, lamenting over me, andblaming herself so much all the time, that it seemed rather a comfort toher when Margaret, coming into the room, agreed with her that she hadbeen foolish and awkward. Margaret said that ribbon might have been tiedover my feet from the first, without using glue or gimlet either; andRose called herself more stupid than ever, for not having thought ofsuch an easy contrivance.My foot was glued, and for the purpose of standing, answered as well asever; and Rose sewed me up in a pair of blue silk boots, and declaredthat I was prettier than before; and my misfortune was soon forgotten byevery body but myself. I, however, could not but feel a misgiving thatthis was the first warning of my share in the invariable fate of myrace. For I had already lived long enough to be aware that the existenceof a doll, like that of every thing else, has its limits. Either bysudden accidents, such as loss of limbs, or by the daily wear and tearof life, decay gradually makes its progress in us, and we fade away assurely as the most delicate of the fragile race of mortals.Though the fracture of my foot was my own first misfortune, I had hadopportunities of remarking the casualties to which dolls are liable. Forit is not to be supposed that our devotion to human beings precludes usfrom cultivating the society of our own species. Dolls will be dolls;and they have a natural sympathy with each other, notwithstanding thecompanionship of the race of man. Most little girls are aware of thisfact, and provide suitable society for their dolls. I myself had a largecircle of silent acquaintances, to whom I was introduced by Rose'skindness and consideration. When other little girls came to drink teawith her, they often brought their dolls to spend the evening with me;and among them I had more than once the pleasure of recognising an oldfriend from the bazaar.Then I was in my glory. There was a constant supply of provisions in mylarder; and at a moment's notice Rose would produce an excellent dinner,all ready cooked, and dished in a beautiful little china dinner-service.Willy compared her to the genius of Aladdin's lamp; and though I did notknow what that might mean, I quite understood the advantage of beingable to set such a banquet before my friends. I could always commandsalmon, a pair of soles, a leg of mutton, a leg of pork, a turkey, apair of boiled fowls, a ham, a sucking pig, a hare, a loaf of bread, afine Cheshire cheese, several pies, and a great variety of fruit, whichwas always ripe and in season, winter or summer. Rose's papa onceobserved that his hothouse produced none so fine; for the currants wereas large as apples, and two cherries filled a dish.Rose and her companions performed the active duties of waiting at tableon these occasions; but the lame footman was generally brought out ofthe hall, and propped up against the sideboard, where he stood lookingrespectable but awkward.At these pleasant parties I saw a great range of characters, for Rose'syoung visitors were various in their tastes, and their dolls used to bedressed in every known costume. Besides plenty of pretty Englishdamsels, I was introduced now to a Turkish sultana, now to a Swisspeasant; one day to a captain in the British army, another day to anIndian rajah. One young lady liked to make her dolls personatecelebrated characters; and when she visited us, most distinguishedguests graced my table. I have had the honor of receiving the Queen andPrince Albert themselves; the Duke of Wellington, Sir Walter Scott, andMiss Edgeworth, have all dined with me on the same day, and RobinsonCrusoe came in the evening.But it was at these social meetings that I became most fully aware ofthe liability of dolls to loss of limbs. I never remember giving a partyat which the guests could boast of possessing all their legs and arms.Many an ingenious contrivance hid or supplied the deficiencies, and wewere happy in spite of our losses; still, such was the case: and I sawthat dolls, however beloved and respected, could not last for ever.For some time after my accident I had no particular adventures. I livedin peace and plenty, and amused myself with watching the family. Theywere all amiable and easy to understand, except Geoffrey; but he was acomplete puzzle to me, and it was long before I could make out why hewas so different from the rest.The others all seemed to like to help and please one another, butGeoffrey never seemed happy unless he was making himself disagreeable.If Willy was interested in a book, he was obliged to sit upon the secondvolume, or Geoffrey would be sure to run away with it. If Edward was ina hurry to go out, Geoffrey would hide his cap, and keep him a quarterof an hour hunting for it. The girls dared not leave their worsted-workwithin his reach for a moment; for he would unravel the canvass, or chopup the wool, or go on with the work after a pattern of his owncomposing, so that they would be obliged to spend half an hour inunpicking his cobbling.Margaret remonstrated with him in private, and made excuses for him inpublic, and did her best to prevent his tiresome tricks from annoyingWilly; Edward tried rougher means of keeping him in order, whichsometimes succeeded; but still he could find plenty of opportunities ofbeing a torment: people always can when such is their taste.One day Margaret was keeping Willy company, while the rest of the partywere gone to the Zoological Gardens. She had brought a drawing tofinish, as he liked to see her draw, and was sometimes useful insuggesting improvements. But while they were thus employed, Margaret wassummoned to some visitors, and went away, saying that her drawing wouldjust have time to dry before she returned.But unfortunately, during her absence, Geoffrey came home. He had growntired of the Gardens, which he had seen very often, and rather hungry,as he generally was; so after amusing himself by eating the cakes he hadbought for the bear, he had nothing more to do, and tried to persuadehis cousins to be tired also. But Edward was making himself agreeable tothe monkeys, Rose was cultivating the friendship of the elephant, andtheir Papa and Mama were waiting to see the hippopotamus bathe; so thatGeoffrey's proposals of leaving the Gardens were scouted, and he couldonly obtain leave from his uncle to go home by himself.He entered the room, as usual, with his mouth full, having spent hislast penny in a piece of cocoanut as he came along the streets. Whilethe cocoanut lasted, he was employed to his satisfaction; but when thatwas finished, he was again at a loss for something to do. He triedwalking round the room on one leg, working heel and toe, and thatsucceeded very well, and did no harm till he unluckily came to thedrawing-table, when he immediately brought himself to a stand on bothfeet.'Hallo!' cried he, 'here's a daub! Is this your splendid performance,Will?''No,' replied Willy, 'it is Margaret's; and mind you don't touch it byaccident, because it is wet.''Touch it by accident!' exclaimed Geoffrey; 'I am going to touch it onpurpose. I wonder Margaret is not ashamed to do it so badly. I'llimprove it for her. How kind of me!'Poor Willy, in dismay, tried to secure the drawing, but he could notmove from his sofa, and Geoffrey danced round him, holding it atarm's-length. Then Willy caught at the bell-rope, but his mischievouscousin snatched it quicker, and tied it up out of his reach. Willycalled all the servants as loud as he could, but no one was withinhearing; and he threw himself back on his sofa, in despair, exclaiming,'How can you be so ill-natured, when Margaret is always so kind to you?''Ill-natured!' answered the other; 'I'm doing her a favor. She admiredthe moonlight in the Diorama; now I shall make just such a moon in herdrawing.' And while he spoke, a great yellow moon, like a guinea, rosein the midst of poor Margaret's brilliant sunset.'That's the thing,' said Geoffrey; 'and now I shall put the cow jumpingover it, and the little dog laughing to see such sport. Some figuresalways improve the foreground.''Oh, you have quite spoilt it!' cried Willy. 'How I wish I could stopyou! I cannot imagine how you can like to be so mischievous anddisagreeable. Oh, if Margaret would but come back.'At last Margaret came, and the troublesome Geoffrey expected greatamusement from her displeasure; but he was disappointed. Margaret wasone of those generous people who never resent an injury done tothemselves. If Geoffrey had spoilt any body else's drawing, she wouldhave been the first to punish him; but now she was much more vexed atWilly's distress than at the destruction of her own work, and instead ofscolding Geoffrey, she gave herself up to consoling Willy. She assuredhim that there was no great harm done. She said the drawing was good forvery little, and that she would copy it and improve it so much that heshould be quite glad of the disaster; and she made a present of thespoilt drawing to Geoffrey, telling him she was sure he would one daybe ashamed of so foolish a performance, but that meanwhile he might keepit as a specimen of his taste. He had not the manners to apologize, buthe looked very silly and crest-fallen, and left the room in silence,with the drawing in his hand.When he was gone, Willy exclaimed, 'If it were not for losing Edward, Ishould wish the holidays were over; Geoffrey is so disagreeable.''He is very thoughtless,' Margaret replied; 'but we must not be too hardupon him. Let us recollect that he has no parents to teach him better,nor brothers and sisters to call forth his consideration for others.Poor Geoffrey has had neither example nor precept till now. But now Papaand Mama give him good precepts; and if we try to set him good examples,perhaps we may help him to improve.''Well, I'll hope for the best, and do what I can,' said Willy.'Certainly he has some good qualities. He is as brave as a lion; and heis good-natured about giving away his own things, though he is somischievous with other people's.''And he is clever in his way, notwithstanding his idleness,' addedMargaret. 'Those foolish figures that he put into my drawing wereuncommonly well done, though they were provoking to us.''You are the best girl in the world,' said Willy; 'and if you thinkGeoffrey will improve, I'll think so too; but you must own there is roomfor it.'Perhaps Geoffrey did improve, but it seemed slow work, faults being moreeasily acquired than cured; and for a long time I could perceive nodifference in him. Indeed, as his next piece of mischief concernedmyself, I thought him worse than ever.I have often wondered at the extreme dislike which boys have to dolls. Iwas the most inoffensive creature possible, giving myself no airs, andinterfering with nobody; yet even the gentle Willy was indifferent tome. Edward, though he protected Rose in her patronage of me, despisedme thoroughly himself; and Geoffrey never lost an opportunity ofexpressing his mortal hatred to me. I shrunk from Edward's contemptuousnotice, but I was not at all afraid of him, well knowing that neither henor Willy would hurt a hair of my head; but whenever Geoffrey came intothe room, terror seized my mind. He never passed my house without makingall kinds of ugly faces at me; and I felt instinctively that nothing butthe presence of the other boys restrained him from doing me any harm inhis power.I had hitherto never been alone with him, but at last the fatal momentarrived. One fine afternoon, Willy went out for a drive in hiswheel-chair, Edward insisting upon drawing it himself, and the two girlswalking on each side. Geoffrey accompanied them, intending to walk withthem part of the way, and to go on by himself when he was tired of theslow pace of the chair. All seemed safe, and I hoped to enjoy a fewhours of uninterrupted leisure. I always liked having my time tomyself; and as Rose had set me no lessons, I reposed comfortably in myarm-chair by a blazing fire of black and red cloth, from the glare ofwhich I was sheltered by a screen. My dog sat at my side, my cat lay atmy feet, and I was as happy as a doll could be.Suddenly the silence was broken by a sound as of a turkey gabbling inthe hall; presently this changed to a duck quacking on the stairs; thena cock crew on the landing-place, and a goose hissed close to theschoolroom door. I guessed but too well what these ominous soundsportended, and my heart sunk within me as the door burst open, and mydreaded enemy banged into the room.'Why, they are not come home yet!' exclaimed he; 'so my talents havebeen wasted. I meant to have made them bid me not make every differentnoise. When they said, "Don't hiss," I would have crowed; and when theysaid, "Don't crow," I would have quacked, or barked, or bellowed, ormewed, till I had gone through all the noises I know. Now I havenothing to do.'He walked to the window and looked out.'What a stupid street it is!' said he. 'If my uncle had not taken awaymy squirt, I would squirt at the people.'Then he yawned, and sauntered to the bookcase. 'What stupid books! Iwonder any body can write them. I wish Edward had left his tools out; Ishould like to plane the top of the shelf. How stupid it is havingnothing to do!'As he spoke, I shuddered to see him approaching my end of the room. Hecame nearer; he made a full stop in front of me, and looked me in theface.'You stupid, ugly thing,' he exclaimed, 'don't stare so. I hate to havea doll's eyes goggling at me.'Gladly would I have withdrawn my eyes, if possible. But they had beenpainted wide open, and what could I do? I never was so ashamed of themin my life; but I had no control over them, so I stared on, and he grewmore indignant.'If you don't leave off,' he cried, 'I'll poke out your eyes, as I didthose of the ugly picture in my room. I won't be stared at.'I longed for the gift of speech to represent to him, that if he wouldbut leave off looking at me, I should give him no offence; but alas, Iwas silent, and could only stare as hard as ever.'Oh, you will, will you?' said he 'then I know what I'll do: I'll hangyou.'In vain I hoped for the return of the rest of the party. I listenedanxiously for every sound, but no friendly step or voice was near, and Iwas completely in his power.He began rummaging his pockets, grinning and making faces at me all thetime. Presently he drew forth a long piece of string, extremely dirty,looking as if it had been trailed in the mud.'Now for it,' he exclaimed; 'now you shall receive the reward of allyour stupidity and affectation. I do think dolls are the most affectedcreatures on the face of the earth.'He laid hold of me by my head, pushing my wig on one side. Alas for mybeautiful hair, it was disarranged for ever! But that was a triflecompared with what followed. He tied one end of his muddy string roundmy neck, drawing it so tight that I foresaw I should be marked for life,and hung the other end to a nail in the wall.There I dangled, while he laughed and quizzed me, adding insult toinjury. He twisted the string as tight as possible, and then let itwhirl round and round till it was all untwisted again. I banged againstthe wall as I spun like a top, and wished that I could sleep like a toptoo. But I was wide awake to my misfortunes; and each interval ofstillness, when the string was untwisted, only enhanced them, by showingin painful contrast the happy home whence I had been torn. For I washung on the wall directly opposite my own house; and from my wretchednail I could distinguish every room in it. Between my twirls I saw mypretty drawing-room, with its comfortable arm-chair now vacant; and myconvenient kitchen, with my respectable cook peacefully basting herperpetual mutton; I envied even my lame footman quietly seated in hischimney-corner, and felt that I had never truly valued the advantages ofmy home till now. Would they ever be restored to me? Should I once againbe under the protection of my kind and gentle mistress, or was IGeoffrey's slave for ever?[Illustration: Page 72]These melancholy thoughts were interrupted by a step on the stairs.'Hallo!' cried Geoffrey, 'who would have thought of their coming homejust now?' and he was going to lift me down from my nail; but when thedoor opened, the housemaid came in alone, and he changed his mind.'Why, Master Geoffrey,' said she, 'what are you doing here all alone?Some mischief, I'll be bound.''Bow, wow, wow,' answered he, dancing and playing all sorts of antics toprevent her seeing me.'Come,' said she, 'those tricks won't go down with me. The more livelyyou are, the more I know you've been after something you ought to havelet alone.''Hee haw, hee haw,' said Geoffrey, twitching her gown, and braying likea donkey.'Well, you're speaking in your own voice at last,' said she, laughing.'But let go of my gown, if you please; you are big enough to walk byyourself, and I want to set the room to rights. There's some youngladies coming to tea with Miss Rose.'She bustled about, dusting and putting every thing in order, and talkingall the time, partly to Geoffrey and partly to herself, about the blacksthat came in at the windows, and made a place want dusting a dozen timesa day, when her eye fell on my unfortunate figure, which my persecutorhad just set swinging like the pendulum of a clock. I was a deplorableobject. He had forced me into the most awkward attitude he could invent.My arms were turned round in their sockets, one stretched towards theceiling, the other at full length on one side. I was forced to kick oneleg out in front, and the other behind; and my knees were bent up thewrong way. My wig had fallen off altogether from my head, and was nowperched upon my toe. I was still swinging, when Sarah caught sight ofme. She looked at me for a moment, and then turned round, opening hereyes at Geoffrey much wider than I had ever done.'Why, you audacious, aggravating boy!' she exclaimed, making a dash athim with her duster; but he ran away laughing, and she was obliged tofinish her speech to herself.'To think of his being so mischievous and ill-natured! What will poorMiss Rose say! To be sure, there is nothing boys won't do; their equalsfor perverseness don't walk the earth. Though I ought not to speakagainst them, while there's Master William and Master Edward tocontradict me. They are boys, to be sure; but as for that Geoffrey!' Andhere she shook her head in silence, as if Geoffrey's delinquencies werebeyond the power of words to express.She then released me; and after restoring my limbs to their properposition, and smoothing my discomposed dress, she laid me gently on mybed, and placed my wig on my pillow beside me, with many kindexpressions of pity and good-will.Repose was indeed needful after so agitating an adventure; and I wasglad to be left quiet till the young people came in from their walk. Icomposed my ruffled spirits as well as I could; but I found itimpossible not to be nervous at the idea of Rose's first seeing me insuch a plight, and I anxiously awaited her return. They came in at last,Rose, Willy, and Margaret; and after establishing Willy on his sofa,Rose's next care was to visit me. 'O Willy! O Margaret!' she exclaimed,and burst into tears.'What is the matter, my darling?' asked Margaret.Rose could not answer; but Sarah was there to tell the story, and doample justice to my wrongs. Yet I could not help observing, in the midstof all her indignation, the difference of her manner towards herpresent hearers and towards Geoffrey. She never seemed on familiar termswith Willy, much less with Margaret or Rose. She neither cut jokes norused rough language to them, but treated them with the respect due toher master's children; though, as I well knew, she was extremely fond ofthem, and disliked Geoffrey, in spite of her familiarity with him.I saw Geoffrey no more that day. Rose's young friends soon arrived, andconsoled both her and me by their kind sympathy and attentions. One madean elegant cap to supply the loss of my wig; another strung a bluenecklace to hide the black mark round my throat; Rose herself put me tobed, and placed a table by my bedside covered with teacups, each, shetold me, containing a different medicine; and the young lady who hadonce brought Miss Edgeworth to dine with me, charged me to lie still andread 'Rosamond' till I was quite recovered.Next morning, as I lay contentedly performing my new part of an invalid,I heard a confidential conversation between Margaret and Geoffrey, inwhich I was interested.They were alone together, and she was taking the opportunity toremonstrate with him on his unkind treatment of me.'What was the harm?' said Geoffrey. 'A doll is nothing but wood or bran,or some stupid stuff; it can't feel.''Of course,' answered Margaret, 'we all know _that_. It is wasteful andmischievous to spoil a pretty toy; but I am not speaking now so much forthe sake of the doll as of Rose. Rose is not made of any stupid stuff;_she_ can feel. And what is more, she can feel for other people as wellas herself. She would never play you such an ill-natured trick.''I should not mind it if she did,' argued Geoffrey; 'I am not such ababy.''You would not mind that particular thing,' answered Margaret, 'becauseyou do not care about dolls; but you would mind her interfering with_your_ pleasures, or injuring your property. You would think it veryill-natured, for instance, if she threw away that heap of nuts whichyou have hoarded like a squirrel on your shelf of the closet.''Nuts are not nonsense like dolls,' said he. 'Besides, she may have asmany of mine as she likes. I tried to make her eat some yesterday.''Yes, and half choked her by poking them into her mouth, when she toldyou she did not want them. She cares no more for nuts than you fordolls. You would think it no kindness if she teazed you to nurse herdoll.''I should think not, indeed,' answered Geoffrey, indignant at the veryidea.'Of course not. Kindness is not shown by forcing our own pleasures downother people's throats, but by trying to promote theirs. That is reallydoing as we would be done by.''But doing as we would be done by is one's _duty_,' said Geoffrey.'I fear it is a duty of which you seldom think,' replied his cousin.'Why, one can't be thinking of _duty_ in those kind of things,' answeredhe.'Why not?' asked Margaret.'Because they are such trifles; duties are great things.''What sort of things do you consider to be duties?' Margaret inquired.'Oh, such things as letting oneself be tortured, like Regulus; orforgiving an enemy who has shot poisoned arrows at one, like Coeur deLion.''Well,' said Margaret smiling, 'such heroic duties as those do not seemlikely to fall in your way just now, perhaps they never may. Ourfellow-creatures are so kind to us, that we are seldom called upon tofulfil any but small duties towards them, or what you would considersuch; for I cannot allow any duty to be small, especially that of doingas we would be done by. If we do not fulfil that in trifles, we shallprobably never fulfil it at all. This is a serious thought, Geoffrey.'Geoffrey looked up; and as he seemed inclined to listen, Margaretcontinued talking to him kindly but gravely, bringing many things beforehis mind as duties which he had hitherto considered to be matters ofindifference. But Margaret would not allow any thing to be a trifle inwhich one person could give pain or pleasure, trouble or relief,annoyance or comfort to another, or by which any one's own mind orhabits could be either injured or improved. She maintained that therewas a right and a wrong to every thing, and that right and wrong couldnever be trifles, whether in great things or small. By degrees theconversation turned upon matters far too solemn to be repeated by a mereplaything like myself; but I thought, as I heard her, that it might bebetter to be a poor wooden figure which could do neither right norwrong, than a human being who neglected his appointed duties.Geoffrey said little, but he shook hands with Margaret when she hadfinished speaking, and I noticed from that day forward a gradualimprovement in his conduct. Bad habits are not cured in a minute, and hedid not become all at once as gentle and considerate as Willy, nor askind and helpful as Edward; but he put himself in the right road, andseemed in a fair way of overtaking them in due time. He at once left off_active_ mischief; and if he could not avoid being occasionallytroublesome, he at any rate cured himself of teazing people on purpose.And it was remarkable how many employments he found as soon as his mindwas disengaged from mischief. Instead of his dawdling about all themorning calling things stupid, and saying he had nothing to do, allmanner of pleasant occupations seemed to start up in his path, as ifmade to order for him, now that he had time to attend to them. When herelinquished the pleasure of spoiling things, he acquired the fargreater pleasure of learning to make them. When Edward was no longerafraid of trusting him with his tools, it was wonderful what a carpenterhe turned out. When Margaret could venture to leave drawing materialswithin his reach, he began to draw capitally. Good-natured Margaret gavehim lessons, and said she would never wish for a better scholar. Hefound it was twice the pleasure to walk or play with Edward when he wasthought an acquisition instead of a burden; and far more agreeable tohave Rose and Willy anxious for his company than wishing to get rid ofhim. But the advantages were not confined to himself; the whole houseshared in them; for his perpetual small annoyances had made every bodyuncomfortable, whereas now, by attention to what he used to look upon astrifles, he found he had the power of contributing his part towards thehappiness of his fellow-creatures, which is no trifle.On the last day of the holidays, the young people were all assembled inthe schoolroom till it was time for Edward and Geoffrey to start. WhileEdward was arranging various matters with Willy, I heard Geoffreywhisper to Margaret that he hoped she had forgiven him for spoiling thatdrawing of hers. She seemed at first really not to know what he meant;but when she recollected it, she answered with a smile, 'Oh, my dearGeoffrey, I had forgiven and forgotten it long ago. Pray never think ofit again yourself.' Geoffrey next went up to Rose and put a littleparcel into her hands. On opening it, she found a box of very prettybonbons in the shape of various vegetables. When she admired them, heseemed much pleased, and said that he had saved up his money to buythem, in hopes she might like them for her dolls' feasts. Rose kissedand thanked him, and said she only wished he could stay and help her andher dolls to eat them. Every body took an affectionate leave ofGeoffrey, and Willy said he was very sorry to lose him, and should misshim sadly.Edward and Geoffrey returned to school, and I never saw Geoffrey again;but a constant correspondence was kept up between him and his cousins,and I often heard pleasant mention of his progress and improvement.Time passed on; what length of time I cannot say, all seasons and theirchange being alike to me; but school-days and holidays succeeded oneanother, and our family grew older in appearance and habits. Rosegradually spent less time with me, and more with her books and music,till at last, though she still kept my house in order, she neveractually played with me, unless younger children came to visit her, and_then_, indeed, I was as popular as ever. But on a little friend's oneday remarking that I had worn the same gown for a month, Rose answeredthat she herself had the charge of her own clothes now, and that whatwith keeping them in order, and doing fancy-work as presents for herfriends, she found no time to work for dolls.By and by, her time for needlework was fully engaged in Geoffrey'sbehalf. He was going to sea; and Rose was making purses, slippers,portfolios, and every thing she could think of as likely to please him.Perhaps _her_ most useful keepsake was a sailor's housewife; but manynice things were sent him from every one of the family. I saw a trunkfull of presents packed and sent off. And when I recollected my firstacquaintance with him, I could not but marvel over the change that hadtaken place, before books, drawing materials, and mathematicalinstruments could have been chosen as the gifts best suited to histaste.Edward used to come home from school as merry and good-humored as ever,and growing taller and stronger every holiday. Rose and Margaret were asflourishing as he; but poor Willy grew weaker, and thinner, and paler.Fresh springs and summers brought him no revival, but as they faded, heseemed to fade with them. He read more than ever; and his sisters werefrequently occupied in reading and writing under his direction, for theywere anxious to help him in his pursuits. His Papa and Mama sometimessaid he studied too hard; and they used to sit with him, and try toamuse him by conversation, when they wished to draw him from his books.Doctors visited him, and prescribed many remedies; and his Mama gave himall the medicines herself, and took care that every order was implicitlyobeyed. His father carried him up and down stairs, and waited upon himas tenderly as even Margaret; but he grew no better with all theircare. He was always gentle and patient, but he appeared in less goodspirits than formerly. He seemed to enjoy going out in his wheel-chairmore than any thing; but one day he observed that the summer was fastcoming to an end, and that then he must shut himself up in his room, forthat he minded the cold more than he used.'I wish we lived in a warmer country,' said Rose; 'perhaps then youmight get better.''I do not know about _living_,' replied Willy. 'England is the bestcountry to _live_ in; but I certainly should like to be out of the wayof the cold for this next winter.''Why do not you tell Papa so?' asked Rose.'Because I know very well he would take me a journey directly, howeverinconvenient it might be to him.'Rose said nothing more just then, but she took the first opportunity oftelling her father what had passed; and he said he was very glad indeedthat she had let him know.From that day forward something more than usual seemed in contemplation.Papa, Mama, and Margaret were constantly consulting together, andEdward, Rose, and Willy followed their example. As for me, nobody hadtime to bestow a look or a thought upon me; but I made myself happy bylooking at and thinking of _them_.One morning two doctors together paid Willy a long visit. After theywere gone, his Papa and Mama came into his room.'Well, my boy,' his father exclaimed in an unusually cheerful tone, 'itis quite settled now; Madeira is the place, and I hope you like theplan.''Oh, Papa,' said Willy, 'is it really worth while?''Of course it is worth while, a hundred times over,' replied his father;'and we will be off in the first ship.''The doctors strongly advise it, and we have all great hopes from it, mydear Willy,' said his mother.'Then so have I,' said Willy; 'and, indeed, I like it extremely, and Iam very grateful to you. The only thing I mind is, that you and myfather should have to leave home and make a long sea voyage, when youdo not like travelling, and Papa has so much to keep him in England.''Oh, never mind me,' said his mother; 'I shall like nothing so well astravelling, if it does you good.''And never mind me,' said his father; 'there is nothing of so muchconsequence to keep me in England, as your health to take me out of it.''Besides, my dear child,' said his mother, 'as the change of climate isso strongly recommended for you, it becomes a duty as well as a pleasureto try it.''So make your mind easy, my boy,' added his father; 'and I will go andtake our passage for Madeira.'The father left the room, and the mother remained conversing with hersick child, whose spirits were unusually excited. I scarcely knew himagain. He was generally slow and quiet, and rather desponding abouthimself; but he now thought he should certainly get well, and was soeager and anxious to start without delay, that his mother had somedifficulty in reconciling him to the idea that no ship would sail tillnext month. She also took great pains to impress upon him the duty ofresignation, in case the attempt should fail, after all, in restoringhis health; and she finally left him, not less hopeful, but more calmand contented with whatever might befall him.And now began the preparations for the voyage. There was no time tospare, considering all that had to be done. Every body was at work; andthough poor Willy himself could not do much to help, he thought ofnothing else. His common books and drawings were changed for maps andvoyages; the track to Madeira was looked up by him and Rose every day,and sometimes two or three times in the day, and every book consultedthat contained the least reference to the Madeira Isles.Edward was an indefatigable packer. He was not to be one of thetravellers, as his father did not choose to interrupt hisschool-education; but no one was more active than he in forwarding thepreparations for the voyage, and no one more sanguine about itsresults.'We shall have Willy back,' he would say, 'turned into a fine strongfellow, as good a cricketer as Geoffrey or I, and a better scholar thaneither of us.'Margaret and Rose were to go; and Rose's young friends all came to takeleave of her, and talk over the plan, and find Madeira in the map, andlook at views of the island, which had been given to Willy. And asailor-friend, who had been all over the world, used to come anddescribe Madeira as one of the most beautiful of all the beautifulplaces he had visited, and tell of its blue sea, fresh and bright,without storms; its high mountains, neither barren nor bleak; and itsclimate, so warm and soft, that Willy might sit out all day in thebeautiful gardens under hedges of fragrant geraniums. And when Willytalked of enjoying the gardens while his stronger sisters were climbingthe hills, there was more to be told of cradles borne upon men'sshoulders, in which Willy could be carried to the top of the highesthills as easily as his sisters on their mountain ponies. And now thepacking was all finished, and the luggage sent on board, and every bodywas anxious to follow it; for the ship was reported as quitecomfortable, and the house was decidedly the reverse. Margaret and herfather had been on board to arrange the cabins, accompanied by theirsailor-friend, who professed to know how to fit up a berth better thanany body. He had caused all the furniture to be fastened, or, as hecalled it, _cleated_ to the floor, that it might not roll about in roughweather. The books were secured in the shelves by bars, and swingingtables hung from the ceilings. Willy's couch was in the most airy andconvenient place at the stern cabin window, and there was an easy chairfor him when he should be able to come out on deck. The ship was said tobe in perfect order, whereas the house was in the utmost confusion anddesolation: the carpets rolled up, the pictures taken down, the mirrorscovered with muslin, the furniture and bookcases with canvass; not avestige left of former habits and occupations, except me and my littlemansion. But in the midst of all the bustle, I was as calm and collectedas if nothing had happened. I sat quietly in my arm-chair, staringcomposedly at all that went on, contented and happy, though apparentlyforgotten by every body. Indeed, such was my placid, patientdisposition, that I do not believe I should have uttered a sound ormoved a muscle if the whole of London had fallen about my little ears.I did certainly sometimes wish to know what was to become of me, and atlast that information was given me.The night before they sailed, Rose busied herself with Sarah in packingup my house and furniture, which were to be sent to a little girl whohad long considered it her greatest treat to play with them. But Rosedid not pack me up with my goods and chattels.'My poor old Seraphina,' said she, as she removed me from my arm-chair,'you and I have passed many a happy day together, and I do not like tothrow you away as mere rubbish; but the new mistress of your house hasalready more dolls than she knows what to do with. You are no greatbeauty now, but I wish I knew any child who would care for you.''If you please to give her to me, Miss Rose,' said Sarah, 'my littleniece, that your Mama is so kind as to put to school, would thank youkindly, and think her the greatest of beauties.''Oh, then, take her by all means, Sarah,' replied Rose; 'and here is alittle trunk to keep her clothes in. I remember I used to be very fondof that trunk; so I dare say your little Susan will like it, though itis not quite new.''That she will, and many thanks to you, Miss. Susan will be as delightedwith it now, as you were a year or two ago.'So they wrapped me up in paper, and Rose having given me a farewellkiss, which I would have returned if I could, Sarah put me and my trunkboth into her great pocket; and on the same day that my old friendsembarked for their distant voyage, I was carried to my new home.CHAPTER III.And now began a third stage of my existence, and a fresh variety oflife.I at first feared that I should have great difficulty in reconcilingmyself to the change; and my reflections in Sarah's dark pocket were ofthe most gloomy cast. I dreaded poverty and neglect. How should I,accustomed to the refinements of polished life and the pleasures ofcultivated society, endure to be tossed about with no home of my own,and perhaps no one who really cared for me? I knew that I was not in myfirst bloom, and it seemed unlikely that a new acquaintance should feeltowards me like my old friend Rose, who had so long known my value.Perhaps I might be despised; perhaps allowed to go ragged, perhaps evendirty! My spirits sunk, and had I been human, I should have wept.But cheerful voices aroused me from this melancholy reverie, and I foundmyself restored to the pleasant light in the hands of agoodhumored-looking little girl, whose reception of me soon banished myfears. For, although altered since the days of my introduction to theworld in the bazaar, so that my beauty was not quite what it had been, Istill retained charms enough to make me a valuable acquisition to achild who had not much choice of toys; and my disposition and mannerswere as amiable and pleasing as ever. My new mistress and I soon lovedeach other dearly; and in her family I learned that people might beequally happy and contented under very different outward circumstances.Nothing could well be more unlike my former home than that to which Iwas now introduced. Susan, my little mistress, was a child of about thesame age as Rose when she first bought me; but Susan had no money tospend in toys, and very little time to play with them, though sheenjoyed them as much as Rose herself. She gave me a hearty welcome; andthough she could offer me no furnished house, with its elegancies andcomforts, she assigned me the best place in her power--the corner of ashelf on which she kept her books, slate, needlework, and inkstand. Andthere I lived, sitting on my trunk, and observing human life from a newpoint of view. And though my dignity might appear lowered in the eyes ofthe unthinking, I felt that the respectability of my character wasreally in no way diminished; for I was able to fulfil the great objectof my existence as well as ever, by giving innocent pleasure, and beinguseful in my humble way.No other dolls now visited me; but I was not deprived of the enjoymentsof inanimate society, for I soon struck up an intimate acquaintance withan excellent Pen in the inkstand by my side, and we passed our leisurehours very pleasantly in communicating to each other our pastadventures. His knowledge of life was limited, having resided in thatinkstand, and performed all the writing of the family, ever since hewas a quill. But his experience was wise and virtuous; and he could bearwitness to many an industrious effort at improvement, in which he hadbeen the willing instrument; and to many a hard struggle for honesty andindependence, which figures of his writing had recorded. I liked towatch the good Pen at his work when the father of the family spent anhour in the evening in teaching Susan and her brothers to write; or whenthe careful mother took him in hand to help her in balancing heraccounts, and ascertaining that she owed no one a penny, before sheventured upon any new purchase. Then my worthy friend was in his glory;and it was delightful to see how he enjoyed his work. He had but onefault, which was a slight tendency to splutter; and as he was obliged tokeep that under restraint while engaged in writing, he made himselfamends by a little praise of himself, when relating his exploits to asympathising friend like myself. On his return with the inkstand to thecorner of my shelf, he could not resist sometimes boasting when he hadnot made a single blot; or confessing to me, in perfect confidence, howmuch the thinness of Susan's upstrokes, or the thickness of herdownstrokes, was owing to the clearness of his slit or the fineness ofhis nib.The family of which we made part lived frugally and worked hard: butthey were healthy and happy. The father with his boys went out early inthe morning to the daily labor by which they maintained the family. Themother remained at home, to take care of the baby and do the work of thehouse. She was the neatest and most careful person I ever saw, and shebrought up her daughter Susan to be as notable as herself.Susan was an industrious little girl, and in her childish way workedalmost as hard as her mother. She helped to sweep the house, and nursethe baby, and mend the clothes, and was as busy as a bee. But she wasalways tidy; and though her clothes were often old and shabby, I neversaw them dirty or ragged. Indeed, I must own that, in point of_neatness_, Susan was even superior to my old friend Rose. Rose wouldbreak her strings, or lose her buttons, or leave holes in her gloves,till reproved by her Mama for untidiness: but Susan never forgot that 'astitch in time saves nine,' and the stitch was never wanting.She used to go to school for some hours every day: and I should haveliked to go with her, and help her in her studies, especially when Ifound that she was learning the multiplication-table, and I rememberedhow useful I had been to Rose in that very lesson; but dolls were notallowed at school, and I was obliged to wait patiently for Susan'scompany till she had finished all her business, both at school and athome.She had so little time to bestow upon me, that at first I began to fearthat I should be of no use to her. The suspicion was terrible; for thewish to be useful has been the great idea of my life. It was my earliesthope, and it will be my latest pleasure. I could be happy under almostany change of circumstances; but as long as a splinter of me remains, Ishould never be able to reconcile myself to the degradation of thinkingthat I had been _of no use_.But I soon found I was in no danger of what I so much dreaded. In fact,I seemed likely to be even more useful to Susan than to Rose. Before Ihad been long in the house, she said one evening that she had an hour tospare, and that she would make me some clothes.'Well and good,' answered her mother; 'only be sure to put your bestwork in them. If you mind your work, the doll will be of great use toyou, and you can play without wasting your time.'This was good hearing for Susan and me, and she spent most of herleisure in working for me. While she was thus employed, I came down frommy shelf, and was treated with as much consideration as when Rose andher companions waited at my table.A great change took place in my wardrobe. Rose had always dressed me ingay silks and satins, without much regard to under clothing; for, shesaid, as my gowns must be sewn on, what did any petticoats signify? Soshe sewed me up, and I looked very smart; and if there happened to beany unseemly cobbling, she hid it with beads or spangles. Once Iremember a very long stitch baffled all her contrivances, and she said Imust pretend it was a new-fashioned sort of embroidery.But Susan scorned all _make-shifts_. Nothing could have been moreunfounded than my fears of becoming ragged or dirty. My attire was plainand suited to my station, but most scrupulously finished. She saw noreason why my clothes should not be made to take off and on, as well asif I had been a doll three feet high. So I had my plain gingham gownswith strings and buttons; and my shifts and petticoats run and felled,gathered and whipped, hemmed and stitched, like any lady's; and everything was neatly marked with my initial S. But what Susan and I weremost particularly proud of, was a pair of stays. They were a long timein hand, for the fitting them was a most difficult job; but whenfinished, they were such curiosities of needlework, that Susan's neatmother herself used to show off the stitching and the eyelet-holes toevery friend that came to see her.Among them, Sarah the housemaid, who was sister to Susan's father, oftencalled in to ask after us all. She was left in charge of the house wheremy former friends had lived, and they sometimes sent her commissions toexecute for them. Then she was sure to come and bring us news of _thefamily_, as she always called Rose and her relations. Sometimes she toldus that Master William was a little better; sometimes that she heardMiss Rose was very much grown; she had generally something to tell thatwe were all glad to hear. One evening, soon after my apparel was quitecompleted, I was sitting on my trunk, as pleased with myself as Susanwas with me, when Sarah's head peeped in at the door.'Good evening to you all,' said she; 'I thought as I went by you wouldlike to hear that I have a letter from the family, and all's well. Ihave got a pretty little job to do for Master Willy. He is to have aset of new shirts sent out directly, made of very fine thin calico,because his own are too thick. See, here is the stuff I have been buyingfor them.''It is beautiful calico, to be sure,' said Susan's mother; 'but suchfine stuff as that will want very neat work. I am afraid you will hardlybe able to make them yourself.''Why, no,' answered Sarah, smiling and shaking her head. 'I am sorry tosay, _there_ comes in my old trouble, not having learned to work neatlywhen I was young. Take warning by me, Susan, and mind your needleworknow-a-days. If I could work as neatly as your mother, my mistress wouldhave made me lady's maid and housekeeper by this time. But I could notlearn any but rough work, more's the pity: so I say again, take warningby _me_, little niece; take pattern by your mother.'Susan looked at me and smiled, as much as to say, 'I have taken patternby her;' but she had not time to answer, for Sarah continued, addressingthe mother:[Illustration: Page 106]'How I wish you could have time to do this job! for it would bring youin a pretty penny, and I know my mistress would be pleased with yourwork; but they are to be done very quickly, in time for the next ship,and I do not see that you _could_ get through them with only one pair ofhands.''We have two pair of hands,' cried Susan; 'here are mine.''Ah, but what can they do?' asked Sarah, 'and how can they do it? It isnot enough to have four fingers and a thumb. Hands must be handy.''And so they are,' answered Susan's mother. 'See whether any hands coulddo neater work than that.' And she pointed me out to Sarah.Sarah took me up, and turned me from side to side. Then she looked at myhems, then at my seams, then at my gathers, while I felt truly proud andhappy, conscious that not a long stitch could be found in either.'Well to be sure!' exclaimed she, after examining me all over; 'do youmean that all that is really Susan's own work?''Every stitch of it,' replied the mother; 'and I think better need notbe put into any shirt, though Master William does deserve the best ofevery thing.''You never said a truer word, neither for Master William nor for littleSusan,' replied Sarah; 'and I wish you joy, Susan, of being able to helpyour mother so nicely, for now I can leave you the job to do betweenyou.'She then told them what was to be the payment for the work, which was amatter I did not myself understand, though I could see that it gave themgreat satisfaction.The money came at a most convenient time, to help in fitting out Susan'sbrother Robert for a place which had been offered to him in the country.It was an excellent place; but there were several things, as his motherwell knew, that poor Robert wanted at starting, but would not mentionfor fear his parents should distress themselves to obtain them for him.Both father and mother had been saving for the purpose, without sayingany thing about it to Robert; but they almost despaired of obtainingmore than half the things they wanted, till this little sum of moneycame into their hands so opportunely.The father was in the secret, but Robert could scarcely believe hiseyes, when one evening his mother and Susan laid on the table beforehim, one by one, all the useful articles he wished to possess. At firsthe seemed almost more vexed than pleased, for he thought of the savingand the slaving that his mother must have gone through to gain them; butwhen she told him how much of them was due to his little sister'sneatness and industry, and how easy the work had been when sharedbetween them, he was as much pleased as Susan herself.We were all very happy that evening, including even the humble friendson the shelf; for I sat on my trunk, and related to the Pen how useful Ihad been in teaching Susan to work; and the worthy Pen stood boltupright in his inkstand, and confided to me with honest pride, thatRobert had been chosen to his situation on account of his excellentwriting.Time passed on, and I suppose we all grew older, as I noticed from timeto time various changes that seemed to proceed from that cause. Thebaby, for instance, though still going by the name of 'Baby,' had becomea strong able-bodied child, running alone, and very difficult to keepout of mischief. The most effectual way of keeping her quiet was toplace me in her hands, when she would sit on the floor nursing me by thehour together, while her mother and sister were at work.Susan was become a tall strong girl, more notable than ever, and, likeRose before her, she gradually bestowed less attention on me; so that Iwas beginning to feel myself neglected, till on a certain birthday ofher little sister's, she declared her intention of making me overaltogether to the baby-sister for a birthday present. Then I once morerose into importance, and found powers which I thought declining, stillundiminished. The baby gave a scream of delight when I was placed in herhand as her own. Till then she had only possessed one toy in the world,an old wooden horse, in comparison with which I seemed in the full bloomof youth and beauty. This horse, which she called JACK, had lost notmerely the ornaments of mane and tail, but his head, one fore and onehind leg; so that nothing remained of the once noble quadruped but abarrel with the paint scratched off, rather insecurely perched upon astand with wheels. But he was a faithful animal, and did his work to thelast. The baby used to tie me on to his barrel, and Jack and I weredrawn round and round the kitchen with as much satisfaction to ourmistress, as in the days when I shone forth, in my gilt coach with itsfour prancing piebalds.But the baby's treatment of me, though gratifying from its cordiality,had a roughness and want of ceremony that affected my enfeebled frame. Icould not conceal from myself that the infirmities I had observed inother dolls were gradually gaining ground upon me. Nobody ever said aharsh word to me, or dropped a hint of my being less pretty than ever,and the baby called me 'Beauty, beauty,' twenty times a day; but stillI knew very well that not only had my rosy color and fine hairdisappeared, but I had lost the whole of one leg and half of the other,and the lower joints of both my arms. In fact, as my worthy friend thePen observed, both he and I were reduced to stumps.The progress of decay caused me no regret, for I felt that I had done mywork, and might now gracefully retire from public life, and resign myplace to newer dolls. But though contented with my lot, I had still oneanxious wish ungratified. The thought occupied my mind incessantly; andthe more I dwelt upon it, the stronger grew the hope that I might have achance of seeing my old first friends once more. This was now my onlyremaining care.News came from them from time to time. Sarah brought word that MasterWilliam was better; that they had left Madeira, and gone travellingabout elsewhere. Then that the father had been in England upon business,and gone back again; that Mr. Edward had been over to foreign parts onesummer holidays to see his family, and on his return had come to giveher an account of them.Sarah was always very bustling when she had any news to bring of thefamily, but one day she called on us in even more flurry than usual. Shewas quite out of breath with eagerness.'Sit down and rest a minute before you begin to speak,' said her quietsister-in-law. 'There must be some great news abroad. It seems almosttoo much for you.'Susan nodded, and began to unpack a great parcel she had brought withher.'It don't seem bad news, to judge by your face,' said the other; for nowthat Sarah had recovered breath, her smiles succeeded one another sofast, that she seemed to think words superfluous.'I guess, I guess,' cried Susan. 'They are coming home.''They are, indeed,' answered Sarah at last; 'they are coming home asfast as steam-engines can bring them: and here is work more than enoughfor you and mother till they come. Miss Margaret is going to bemarried, and you are to make the wedding-clothes.'So saying, she finished unpacking her parcel, and produced various finematerials which required Susan's neatest work.'These are for you to begin with,' said she, 'but there is more coming.'She then read a letter from the ladies with directions about theneedlework, to which Susan and her mother listened with great attention.Then Sarah jumped up, saying she must not let the grass grow under herfeet, for she had plenty to do. The whole house was to be got ready; andshe would not have a thing out of its place, nor a speck of dust to befound, for any money.Susan and her mother lost no time either; their needles never seemed tostop: and I sat on the baby's lap watching them, and enjoying the happyanticipation that my last wish would soon be accomplished.But though Susan was as industrious as a girl could be, and just nowwished to work harder than ever, she was not doomed to 'all work and noplay;' for her father took care that his children should enjoythemselves at proper times. In summer evenings, after he came home fromhis work, they used often to go out all together for a walk in thenearest park, when he and his wife would rest under the trees, and readover Robert's last letter, while the children amused themselves. Verymuch we all enjoyed it, for even I was seldom left behind. Susan wouldplease the baby by dressing me in my best clothes for the walk; and thegood-natured father would laugh merrily at us, and remark how much goodthe fresh air did me. We were all very happy; and when my thoughtstravelled to other scenes and times, I sometimes wondered whether myformer friends enjoyed themselves as much in their southern gardens, asthis honest family in their English fields.Our needlework was finished and sent to Sarah's care to await Margaret'sarrival, for which we were very anxious.On returning home one evening after our walk, we passed, as we oftendid, through the street in which I had formerly lived. Susan was leadingher little sister, who, on her part, clutched me in a way very unlikethe gentleness which Susan bestowed upon her. On arriving at thewell-known house, we saw Sarah standing at the area-gate. We stopped tospeak to her.'When are they expected?' asked Susan's mother.'They may be here any minute,' answered Sarah; 'Mr. Edward has justbrought the news.'The street-door now opened, and two gentlemen came out and stood on thesteps. One was a tall fine-looking boy, grown almost into a young man;but I could not mistake the open good-humored countenance of my oldfriend Edward. The other was older, and I recognised him as thetraveller who used to describe Madeira to Willy.They did not notice us, for we stood back so as not to intrude, andtheir minds were evidently fully occupied with the expected meeting.We all gazed intently down the street, every voice hushed in eagerinterest. Even my own little mistress, usually the noisiest of hertribe, was silent as myself. It was a quiet street and a quiet time, andthe roll of the distant carriages would scarcely have seemed to breakthe silence, had it not been for our intense watching, and hoping thatthe sound of every wheel would draw nearer. We waited long, and weremore than once disappointed by carriages passing us and disappearing atthe end of the street. Edward and his friend walked up and down, eastand west, north and south, in hopes of descrying the travellers in theremotest distance. But after each unavailing walk, they took up theirpost again on the steps.At last a travelling carriage laden with luggage turned the nearestcorner, rolled towards us, and stopped at the house. The two gentlemenrushed down the steps, flung open the carriage-door, and for somemoments all was hurry and agitation, and I could distinguish nothing.I much feared that I should now be obliged to go home without actuallyseeing my friends, for they had passed so quickly from the carriage tothe house, and there had been so much confusion and excitement duringthose few seconds, that my transient glance scarcely allowed me to knowone from another; but in course of time Sarah came out again, and askedSusan's father to help in unloading the carriage, desiring us to sitmeanwhile in the housekeeper's room. So we waited till the business wasfinished, when, to my great joy, we were summoned to the sitting-room,and I had the happiness of seeing all the family once more assembled.I was delighted to find how much less they were altered than I. I hadbeen half afraid that I might see one without a leg, another without anarm, according to the dilapidations which had taken place in my ownframe; but strange to say, their sensitive bodies, which felt everychange of weather, shrunk from a rough touch, and bled at the scratchof a pin, had outlasted mine, though insensible to pain or sickness.There stood the father, scarcely altered; his hair perhaps a little moregray, but his eyes as quick and bright as ever. And there was themother, still grave and gentle, but looking less sad and careworn thanin the days of Willy's constant illness. And there was, first ininterest to me, my dear mistress, Rose, as tall as Margaret, and ashandsome as Edward. I could not imagine her condescending to play withme now. Margaret looked just as in former times, good and graceful; butshe stood a little apart with the traveller friend by her side, and Iheard Rose whisper to Susan that the wedding was to take place in afortnight. They were only waiting for Geoffrey to arrive. His ship wasdaily expected, and they all wished him to be present.And Willy, for whose sake the long journey had been made, how was he?Were all their hopes realized? Edward shook his head when Susan's motherasked that question; but Willy was there to answer it himself. He wasstanding by the window, leaning on a stick, it is true, but yet able tostand. As he walked across the room, I saw that he limped slightly, butcould move about where he pleased. He still looked thin and pale, butthe former expression of suffering and distress had disappeared, and hiscountenance was as cheerful as his manner. I could see that he was verymuch better, though not in robust health like Edward's. He thankedSusan's mother for her kind inquiries, and said that, though he had notbecome all that his sanguine brother hoped, he had gained health morethan enough to satisfy himself; that he was most thankful for hispresent comfort and independence; and that if he was not quite so strongas other people, he hoped he should at any rate make a good use of thestrength that was allowed him. Turning to Edward, who still lookeddisappointed, he continued: 'Who could have ventured to hope, Edward,three years ago, that you and I should now be going to collegetogether?' And then even Edward smiled and seemed content.As we turned to leave the room, Susan and her little sister lingered fora moment behind the others, and the child held me up towards Rose. Rosestarted, and exclaimed, 'Is it possible? It really _is_ my poor oldSeraphina. Who would have thought of her being still in existence? Whata good, useful doll she has been! I really must give her a kiss oncemore for old friendship's sake.'So saying, she kissed both me and the baby, and we left the house.And now there remains but little more for me to relate. My history andmy existence are fast drawing to an end; my last wish has been gratifiedby my meeting with Rose, and my first hope realized by her praise of myusefulness. She has since given the baby a new doll, and I am finallylaid on the shelf, to enjoy, in company with my respected friend thePen, a tranquil old age. When he, like myself, was released from activework, and replaced by one of Mordan's patent steel, he kindly offered toemploy his remaining leisure in writing from my dictation, and it is incompliance with his advice that I have thus ventured to record myexperience.That experience has served to teach me that, as all inanimate thingshave some destined use, so all rational creatures have some appointedduties, and are happy and well employed while fulfilling them.With this reflection, I bid a grateful farewell to those young patronsof my race who have kindly taken an interest in my memoirs, contentedlyawaiting the time when the small remnant of my frame shall be reduced todust, and my quiet existence sink into a still more profound repose.THE END.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Doll and Her Friends, by Unknown*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DOLL AND HER FRIENDS ******** This file should be named 21861.txt or 21861.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/1/8/6/21861/Produced by David Edwards, Jana Srna and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Thisfile was produced from images generously made availableby The University of Florida, The InternetArchive/Children's Library)Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's A Pioneer Railway of the West, by Maude Ward LaffertyThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: A Pioneer Railway of the WestAuthor: Maude Ward LaffertyRelease Date: November 14, 2008 [EBook #27256]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A PIONEER RAILWAY OF THE WEST ***Produced by David Garcia and the Online DistributedProofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file wasproduced from images generously made available by TheKentuckiana Digital Library)A Pioneer Railway of the WestBy Maude Ward Lafferty[Illustration]  This restoration of a portion of the original track of the  Lexington and Ohio (now Louisville and Nashville) Railroad    laid at Lexington in 1831, is dedicated to those men of     forethought and courage who were pioneers in railroad                   development in America.                     Erected Anno Domini                           MCMXVI.                    Dedication Exercises                          10 A. M.                       May 30, 1916        College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering                   University of KentuckyDuring the month of July, 1915, there appeared in a local newspaper anaccount of the finding of "Old Rail Stones" and "Old Strap Iron Rails"which had been used in the construction of the railroad generally knownas "the old Lexington and Frankfort Road," though it was incorporatedunder the name of the "Lexington and Ohio Rail Road." It is believed bymany to have been the first railroad west of the Alleghany Mountains.Be that as it may, the quaint and interesting relics had just been dugup that week by the workmen who were reconstructing the freight yardsof the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. The workmen were moving morerecently laid tracks back to _the old original road bed of the pioneerrailroad_, and in doing so they unearthed those curious relics of 1831.Although just starting that very day for a summer vacation, I hurrieddown town a little before train time, and went to the Main Streetoffices of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad where the interestingrelics were on display.As I stood gazing at that worn and rusty bar of iron with its singlebent and rusty spike, I was whisked back across the years by somestrange trick of memory and I saw, instead, a dimly lighted sick room,on a hot summer night--myself a little sufferer, and sitting beside me,fanning my fevered brow, my beloved father, who, notwithstanding thefatigue of a heavy and exacting practice sat thus night after night,soothing me to sleep by telling me entertaining stories of his youth,and as he was born one hundred and one years ago, the strangeexperiences of his boyhood were thrilling indeed to his youthful adorer.And so, I saw in my mind's eye that familiar room of my childhood--theopen window, the breezes blowing the curtains to and fro, the moonlightcasting strange shadows on the terrace outside, and I heard again thatvoice which has meant so much to me telling how "when the first railroadstarted" and all the people had gathered from far and near "to witnessits departure," he and a group of fellow students from TransylvaniaUniversity, mounted on fast horses, galloped ahead "to see if theWonderful Thing could round the curve without running off the track";and how "it came in sight, thundering along, puffing out clouds of blacksmoke, the engineer adding to the confusion by incessantly blowing hisshrill whistle," all of which so terrified his horse, he had greatdifficulty in keeping his seat, but yet, how tremendously impressed hewas by the "gallant way in which the gentlemen seated in the coachraised their stovepipe hats in greeting as they passed by like a streakof lightning."He said the locomotive had been invented by his old friend Tom Barlow,in whose honor he had named our Tom Barlow, his favorite race horse.He also said the old locomotive looked like a "thresher engine mountedon a flat car," and that the coach was for all the world like an"omnibus with seats on top as well as inside," and furthermore, headded, when it had been proved safe he rode upon it himself, and then"rode home on horseback" (a distance of thirty miles) to tell his motherall about it.And this was all that was left of that Wonderful Thing, this bit ofscrap iron and a few stone sills!Finding myself gazing vacantly at that relic of the Past, and thatpeople were noting my abstraction, I hastily gathered myself togetherand crossing the street to our beautiful Union Station, I startedon my journey. In a magnificent chair car, luxuriously furnished andupholstered, a liveried porter raised the windows and adjusted screens,turned on an electric fan, offered me the latest magazines and papersfresh from the press, placed a footstool at my feet and a cushion atmy back. My safety was provided for by double tracking and unseen butperfectly trained employees, but neither the reading matter in my lap,the comfort of my surroundings, nor the always charming scenery from thecar window, could drive from my thoughts the quaint old railroad; andwhen I came back to Lexington in the fall, in my eager desire to knowmore about it, I immediately began my research which has grown into thishistory of  "A Pioneer Railway of the West."        MAUDE WARD LAFFERTY.The first locomotive engine in the world was built just one hundredyears ago by George Stephenson and used at Newcastle, England, at theKillingworth Colliery.According to the Encyclopedia Britannica _railways_ had their origin in_tramways_ which were used more than two hundred years ago in the miningdistricts of England to carry their output of coal to the sea.The Stockton and Darlington Railway, about thirty-eight miles in length,was operating a locomotive driven by Stephenson, with a signalman onhorseback, in advance, in 1825. The passenger coach in this instance wasnamed the "Experiment," and carried six persons inside and from fifteento twenty persons outside. But it was the year 1829, which became famousin the annals of railways, not only for the opening of the Liverpool andManchester line, but for the invention and construction of the firsthigh speed locomotive of the standard modern type. Robert Stephenson'sengine, "The Rocket," was made under competition for the Liverpool andManchester Railway and it gained the prize of five hundred pounds forlightness, power and speed, awarded by the directors.FIRST RAILROADS AND LOCOMOTIVES IN THE UNITED STATES.The newspapers of that period were filled with the wonderful"performance" of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway and the people ofthe United States, as well as those of Great Britain, became interestedin the question of railroad transportation. As early as 1828 charterswere obtained in several Eastern States and railroad companiesorganized.The first locomotive engine used in this country was operated on theDelaware and Hudson Canal Company's railroad between the mines atCarbondale and the town of Honesdale, Pennsylvania. This locomotive wasbuilt at Stourbridge, England, and made its trial trip in August, 1829.KENTUCKY'S FIRST RAILROAD.Kentucky, which was one of the leading States in the Union in those daysin all progressive movements, was wide awake to the great advantages tobe gained by railroad transportation. And Lexington, which seems to havebeen the "self-starter" of Kentucky, was aroused to the highest pitch ofexcitement. The various "performances" of the English railroads werepublished at length in the Kentucky Gazette, and the Observer andReporter. Lexington was the very heart of the great Blue Grass region ofKentucky. The amazing richness of the soil had lured the first settlersfrom the safety of their transmontane homes to the hardships of Indianfighting and primitive living. Here they had built an ideal city adornedwith beautiful Colonial homes; established the first great seat oflearning west of the Alleghanies; built the first insane asylum; startedthe first newspaper; established the first public library, andsurrounded by culture, wealth and refinement, with every want seeminglysupplied and every wish apparently gratified, their business mendeclared there was yet one thing lacking--they needed an outlet to somegreat water course. The town branch was beautiful to look upon and anever-failing delight to those first inhabitants but useless fornavigation. Their bountiful crops demanded transportation to the marketsof the world. And now, like a miracle to solve their difficulties camethis railroad proposition. They read the local papers with interest,discussed the question at public meetings, sent a man to England toobtain all available information concerning it, and with a push andenergy which would startle the town today, they set to work to obtain acharter from the Kentucky Legislature, then in its session of 1829-30,asking for a railroad from Lexington, Kentucky, _to some point_ on theOhio River.       *       *       *       *       *The Reporter for February 3rd, 1830, _just one week_ after the Charterwas obtained, had the following article: "As considerable interest hasbeen excited in this community on the subject of Railroads by the Act ofthe Legislature authorizing the formation of a Company to make one fromthis town to the Ohio River, we have copied into this paper severalarticles going to show their immense utility and importance.However great the advantages of Railroads may be to any country we areconvinced that there is none where this beneficial influence could bemore intensely experienced than in this section of Kentucky."       *       *       *       *       *Then follows a notice calling attention to Section I of the Charter andasking that subscription books be opened. On Monday, February 8th, 1830,_just eleven days_ after the Charter was obtained, the books were openedat Brennan's Tavern from ten a.m. until two p.m. on five successivedays. And in this incredibly short space of time the money was raisedby those public spirited, enterprising men. What a magnificentachievement!Digressing a moment here, it must be remembered that Brennan's Tavern,which plays so conspicuous a part in this history of the railroad, wasnone other than the famous old Postlethwaite's Tavern, known to us asthe Phoenix Hotel, which has been making history for Lexington since1800. At this particular time it was leased and conducted by Mr.Brennan, and so took his name for the time being.       *       *       *       *       *In the next issue of the Reporter, February 10th, 1830, we find:"Agreeable to the notice published in our last, the subscription booksfor stock in this company were opened on Monday last, and before twoo'clock p.m., the amount of stock subscribed was for $204,000. We haveprocured the following list of the names of the subscribers with thesums subscribed by each respectively, which we publish by way of showingto those who are yet in doubt as to the practicability and policy ofthis work, how the subject is viewed by men of practical experience."Then follows a list of twenty-two subscribers."These liberal subscriptions by persons who have carefully investigatedthe subject afford conclusive proof that they consider the project notonly a feasible one but one that offers to the Capitalist an opportunityfor a profitable investment of funds. They have doubtless taken intoconsideration the peculiar advantages of the country in which the roadwill be located. * * * It is impossible to imagine the full extent ofthe varied mutual influences which the prosperity of this section of thecountry and the Rail Road will exert, all tending to the convenience,wealth and happiness of the community. * * *P. S.--At the closing of the books at two p.m. on Tuesday, the followingadditional subscriptions had been taken."(Follows a list of forty-two subscribers.)"Which makes a total amount of $310,800; $300,000 being all that isnecessary to vest corporate rights."At a meeting assembled for the purpose, Mr. Elisha I. Winter waselected President and John Brand, Benjamin Gratz, George Boswell, WalterDunn, Richard Higgins, Henry Clay, Joseph Bruen, Henry C. Payne, ElishaWarfield, Benjamin Dudley and Charlton Hunt, Directors of the Lexingtonand Ohio Rail Road Co."CONSTRUCTION.The succeeding newspapers published a great deal on construction, andwhen it is remembered that all of it was experimental at that time,it will be interesting to note that the Lexington and Ohio RailroadCompany, patterned most closely after the English models, undertaking,however, to improve upon them by the use of our native limestone sillswhich they believed to be indestructible and found, to their sorrow, tobe most perishable.The Reporter of November 24th, 1830, says: "A great deal of informationon the subject of Rail Roads has been disseminated by public spiritedindividuals in the course of the past two or three years. A number ofsuch works have been projected in the United States and some of themcompleted within that period. The Baltimore and Ohio is first and mostimportant in every point of view. To the efforts of the enterprisingDirectors and Stockholders of that Company, we shall be indebted forthe creation in a short period of time of a greater extent of Railwaycommunication between the several parts of the Union than Centuries haveproduced of artificial or canal navigation. We firmly believe that thedigging of canals in all parts of the country will cease and that manynow in use will be abandoned and railroads substituted in place of them.* * * * * As to the mode of construction--the route is selected upona minute survey, with as little elevation as possible, with a view toeconomy--the line is then graded by excavating the earth to near alevel, say 50 feet slope to the mile. The excavation for a single lineof rails need not be more than one-third the width of a turnpike and, ofcourse, this part of the work is proportionately cheaper than gradingfor a turnpike. Large pieces of limestone, two feet or more in lengthand from 3 to 12 inches thick, made straight on the upper edge, are thenfirmly imbedded along the graduated road in two lines, 4 feet 3 inchesapart. On these lines of stone sills are laid iron bars or rails, 2inches wide, 1-1/2 inches thick, fastened with iron bolts. Bridges topass water courses and drains to carry off the water are to be made inthe common way. * * * The work is now done. As to its cost--Unless theroute be through hills and vallies and, of course, a very unfavorableone, the necessary grading of a narrow line for a railway will not costmore than the like work for a wide turnpike. * * * The next item ofexpense is stone work. The stone sills will cost 20 cents per foot, or$2,112 per mile for two rows. The iron rails and bolts will cost $57 perton, or $969 per mile, allowing 17 tons which will do, fastening thesame from 1 to $200 a mile. * * * No greater difficulty exists in fixingthe precise cost of a railway than of a house of given dimensions or ofa brick wall. In reference to the Lexington and Ohio Railroad therequisite data to form true estimates of the cost of each separate milewill soon be in possession of the Company. The Engineers are of theopinion that it is throughout an eligible cheap line. The whole costthen is less than $8,000 a mile."       *       *       *       *       *The Reporter of December 1st, 1830, makes an interesting correction:"In speaking in our last of the iron rails, we should have describedthem as _half an inch_ thick instead of an inch and a half. Theengineers have run the experimental line on a grade thirty feet to themile instead of fifty feet as we supposed. A locomotive engine will actadvantageously upon a grade of forty feet or more, but the countrybetween Lexington and Louisville will admit of as low a grade as thirtyfeet without expensive excavations or embankments, there being nonatural obstacle on the whole line except at Frankfort where an inclinedplane and stationary power will be required to reach the Kentucky River."       *       *       *       *       *In the issue of March 30th, 1831, the Reporter makes an interestingcalculation, proving in dollars and cents the value of the prospectiverailroad. It says: "It appears by a statement of the performance on theLiverpool and Manchester Railway that an engine has transported 142 tonsof freight 180 miles in one day, making six trips between the two towns,and that on the next day, the steam engine travelled 120 miles withsimilar loads. The transportation of 142 tons in 180 miles is equivalentto the conveyance of one ton 4620 miles. Now, if as it is stated, thecost of fuel, oil, attendance and all other charges requisite to theoperations of a Locomotive Engine be only $5 a day, it follows thatwhen once a Rail Road is completed and all its machinery prepared foroperations 4620 tons may be transported one mile for $5.00, or 100 tonsone mile for 12-3/4 cents. When these results are applied to our ownroad it will be seen that estimating ten barrels of flour for a ton,the transportation of 100 barrels 100 miles would cost 106-1/4 cents.It is true that no one can suppose that this full result can ever bereduced to continued practice but the simple fact of its having oncebeen accomplished will be sufficient to place Rail Roads far above allother artificial means of transportation. At the same time it should notbe forgotten that the wagons on the Liverpool and Manchester Rail Roadare of the old construction and are known to require double the powerto draw them that the wagons do on our Rail Road."       *       *       *       *       *"Our Stockholders" pushed the work on "our Rail Road" with all speed;the engineer submitted his report, and from the Kentucky Reporter,September 1st, 1830, we find: "The examinations of the route for theRail Road from Lexington to the Ohio River has been made as far asFrankfort which exhibit the following results:1. There will be one Inclined Plane at Frankfort about 2200 feet long,descending one foot in fourteen. All the residue of the road can begraded to 30 feet or less in a mile which is a fraction overone-fifteenth of an inch rise in a foot.2. On that grade there will be no "cut" deeper than 19 feet at the apexand but one of that depth.3. There will be no embankment over 20 feet high, no bridge over 30 feethigh.4. The distance to Frankfort will not be increased two miles in lengthover the present travelled road.5. There will not be as much rock excavation in the grading as will berequired to construct the road.6. On the thirty feet grade which has been tentatively adopted, a singlehorse is capable of travelling with seven tons weight with as much easeas five horses can draw two tons on our present roads in their bestcondition. Hence it follows that one man and two horses can transport onthe Railway as much weight in the same time as 35 horses and seven menon our present roads."       *       *       *       *       *That part of the road from Lexington to Villa Grove, six miles west ofLex. was known as the "first division"; from Villa Grove to Frankfortwas designated "second division."       *       *       *       *       *Mr. Kneass, the chief engineer, submitted "a grade table and a tableexhibiting the length of straight line, length of curve and radius ofcurvature" to the Directors on October 14th, 1831.       *       *       *       *       *John Holburn and Company were employed to furnish stone rail sills at37-1/2 cents per perch.       *       *       *       *       *On April 20th, 1831, The Reporter, which by the way, was known as "Mr.Clay's organ," gives a most entertaining description of a Directorsmeeting. It says:"The Stockholders of the Lexington and Ohio Rail Road Company met at theCourt House in Lexington on Saturday last. H. Clay was called to theChair and H. I. Bodley acted as Secretary.The meeting was large, most of the Stockholders, representing upwardsof six hundred thousand dollars, were present. The Stockholders atLouisville were represented by Messrs. J. S. Snead, B. Lawrence, S. S.Nicholas, J. I. Jacob and George Keats.Mr. E. I. Winter (President of the Company) addressed the meeting anhour and a half. He described the route as surveyed by Mr. Kneass, theEngineer, entered into explanations respecting the estimates and madevarious calculations as to the probable cost of the work. He presenteda very satisfactory and clear view of the means of the Company--itsflattering prospects--the great resources of this section of thecountry &c.After much discussion it was_Resolved_--That the Directors of the Lexington and Ohio Rail RoadCompany be requested to take measures to put a proportion of the roadunder contract, not exceeding eight miles at Louisville and seven atLexington, provided the same can be done at a cost not exceeding by 10per cent the estimate made by Mr. Kneass, Engineer._Resolved_--That the Directors be authorized to call from theStockholders a sum not exceeding $150,000 pro rata. for the completionof the 15 miles of Road named in the foregoing resolution, in suchproportion and at such times as the exigencies of the Company mayrequire, and that they are not authorized to extend their expendituresbeyond the said $150,000 until after the Stockholders shall have beenlegally convened and a report laid before them of the progress made inthe work.""The meeting then adjourned, but before the Company dispersed anumber of persons came forward and entered their names for stock.The Stockholders dined together with the Louisville delegation atPostlethwaite's Inn. We congratulate the friends of this nobleenterprise on the results of the meeting. We especially congratulatethe citizens of Lexington on the bright prospects ahead--the '_Winter_of their discontent being made glorious summer'--by the proceedingsof this glorious day."The Trustees of the town of Lexington later took $25,000 worth of stock.       *       *       *       *       *At last the great day arrived for the laying of the first rail stone,and the Lexington Observer of October 28th, 1831, gives a brilliantdescription of this most momentous occurrence. Gives it with a vividnesswhich brings the picture so clearly before the reader that in spite ofhimself he joins the merry throng and takes his place in the spectacularparade which marks a new epoch in the history of Lexington. The Observersays:LAYING FIRST RAIL STONE."Agreeable to the arrangements published in our last paper the ceremonyof Laying the First Rail Stone of the Lexington and Ohio Rail Road, wasperformed in the presence of a large concourse of citizens and strangerson Saturday last.At 11 o'clock the three Military Companies which formed the escortmarched from their place of rendezvous to the College lawn, where theywere met by the various societies and individuals named in the order ofthe Marshal. The procession was then formed in the following order--  Col. Leslie Combs, Marshall, with J. B. Coleman, Esq., (his aid) on  horseback.  Maj. Gen. Pendleton and Staff, on horseback.  Field Officers and Staff, on horseback.  Officers of the Line--on foot.  Capt. Hunt's Artillery, in Platoons.  Gov. Metcalfe, supported by    Prof. Caldwell, Orator of the Day, and    Rev. N. H. Hall--Officiating Clergyman.  Judges Underwood and Buckner--Court of Appeals.  Judge Hickey, Fayette Circuit Court.  Hon. R. M. Johnson, R. P. Letcher, T. A. Marshall, Members of Congress.  Several Members of the Kentucky Legislature.  Capt. T. A. Russell--Ass't. Marshal.  President and Directors Lexington and Ohio R. R. Co.  Samuel H. Kneass, Chief Engineer--His Assistants and Treasurer  of the Co.  Contractors and Pioneers with their implements of Labor.  State Board of Internal Improvement.  President, Engineers and Directors of Lexington and Maysville  Turnpike Road.  Mayor and Aldermen of Louisville (who did not come).  Capt. Neet's Rifle Guards--in Platoons.  Military Band of Music.  Trustees of the Town of Lexington and Clerk.  Justices of Fayette County Court and Clerk.  Trustees and Professors of Transylvania University.  Reverend Clergy.  Surgeons and Physicians.  Members of the Bar and Officers of Fayette County Court.  Union Philosophical Society of Transylvania University.  Medical and Law Students.  Tutors and Students of Transylvania University.  Principal of Preparatory Department and Pupils.  Principal and Pupils of Wentworth Seminary.  Principal and Tutors of Shelby Female Academy and Pupils.  Principal and Professors of Eclectic Institute and Pupils.  STRANGERS.  Stockholders of Lexington and Ohio R. R. Co.  Capt. Postlethwaite's Light Infantry Company--in Platoons.  Lieut.-Col. A. Stevens--Ass't. Marshal.  CITIZENS ON FOOT.       *       *       *       *       *"For many years we have not witnessed so imposing a pageant and neverone more interesting. A Federal Salute was fired by Capt. Hunt'sArtillery at sunrise and seven guns when the first stone sill was laid,indicating the seven sections of the road under contract. The processionfirst moved in a circle around the lawn where it was formed at whichtime the bells in the various churches in town commenced a merry pealwhich continued until the procession reached the place where theceremony was performed. The Military Escort then formed a hollow squarewithin which the whole civic procession was enclosed. Thousands ofdelighted and anxious spectators were on the outside, among whom we weregratified to see a large concourse of ladies for whose accommodation theMarshal had directed the adjacent Market House to be appropriated.A blessing on the stupendous undertaking was then invoked by theofficiating clergyman, after which E. I. Winter, Esq., President of theCompany, handed a hammer to the Governor of the State, who drove thenail attaching the first iron rail to the beginning stone sill. Themusic struck up "Hail Columbia" and afterwards "Yankee Doodle," whichwas played until the Artillery ceased firing.Prof. Caldwell then delivered a highly interesting and appropriateaddress. The procession then returned to the University lawn after whichthe Military marched to the Arsenal and were dismissed, having receivedthe thanks of the Directors and President of the Rail Road and thecompliments of the Marshal for their excellent marching and exemplarygood order on the occasion.The arrangements for this interesting ceremony were hurried perhaps bythe zeal of those immediately concerned and a desire to proceed withoutfurther delay with the work. A little more time and a little morepreparation would have been better but the whole proceeding wasconducted very handsomely. The procession was very numerous. The streetsthrough which the long line marched were crowded with spectators andevery window and every balcony were filled with ladies. The Militarylooked uncommonly well. The pupils of the various institutions woreappropriate badges. The ceremonies at the place of laying the cornerstone were not tedious. The omission to prepare a rostrum for theOrator was a grievous oversight--thousands were unable to hear thespeech, but those who were more fortunate pronounced it appropriateand eloquent and considering the very short notice upon which it wasprepared, the effort was worthy of the distinguished orator, whichalone, is saying enough in praise.The prayer of the Rev. Mr. Hall, by which the occasion was preceded,awakened the best feelings of the human heart. The Governor and thePresident of the Company quickly dispatched the duty assigned them andthe procession moved from the ground in good order, nothing havingoccurred in the slightest degree unpleasant. All were happy that thegood work was now in progress and delighted at the bright prospectsnow dawning upon the towns and country through which the road is topass. Owing to the short notice the expected guests from Maysville andLouisville did not attend but the Company was honored with the presenceof the Governor and several distinguished members of Congress and twoof the Judges of the Court of Appeals. These with other notable guestsdined with the President, Directors and Stockholders at Postlewaite'sInn and during the even the Governor visited the Theater where he wasreceived with many rounds of applause."       *       *       *       *       *Down in our hearts we are truly thankful for the present century and allits benefits and we would rather be plain Kentucky people living todaythan any royalty in history. And yet when we read a great thrilling talelike this we cannot overcome a strange sense of loss, a feeling ofregret that we too, could not have been there to see that wonderfulpageant pass by. The Military with its pomp and music; the professorsand their students; the officials and the rank and file; the lawyers,and the doctors and the ministers; the contractors and "Pioneers andtheir implements of Labor"; the old, the young, the great, thesmall--all banded together in one great masterly pull for Lexington!What a picture! What a privilege! What an inspiration! What would we notgive to have seen it with our own eyes, to have applauded it with ourown hands.And yet, perhaps that is what we are doing now, applauding and givingpraise and credit to those splendid citizens whose generosity,foresight, energy and progressive public spirit made Lexington a leadingcity of its day!But to return to our subject, the newspapers kept the people advised asto the progress of the work and the Observer of February 3rd, 1832,says:"Those who feel an interest in this great work will be pleased to learnthat the grading of the first six miles put under contract last fall isalready in a state of much forwardness. The stones for the Rail Sillsare excavated from a quarry a short distance below the city. The easewith which they are split out and fashioned into sills is trulysurprising. They are about twelve inches wide and many of them aretwenty or twenty-five feet in length."       *       *       *       *       *And again on May 24th, 1832--"The grading of the first division of six miles is nearly completed.Part of the Iron Rails for the first division have arrived at Louisvillefrom Liverpool by way of New Orleans, and the laying of the stone sillswill be forthwith commenced."       *       *       *       *       *The work progressed steadily in spite of many obstacles--chief of whichseems to have been the indifference of Louisville and lack of readymoney, and so in the Observer for March 16th, 1832, there is aninteresting and eloquent appeal:"To the Citizens of Lexington and Fayette County--"Now is the time for every man, who is a man and will act like one, tocome forward and put his shoulder to the wheel. The Lexington and OhioRail Road can be finished to Frankfort before the 1st of November, 1832,if those who are able will do their duty and take stock, or increasetheir present subscriptions. Not one should hang back and let hisneighbors do for him what he ought to do for himself. If he loves money,this is the way to improve his fortune; if he loves his country, this isthe sure way to advance her power and glory.The work can be done and will be done in the time I have named if youare true to your best interests and will act promptly on this occasion.No time is to be lost--Come all--Come quickly. Let us have no moretheorizing but in its stead, efficient action."       *       *       *       *       *And again in the same month the Directors authorized the President, Mr.Elisha I. Winter, to let the grading of the twenty-three sections of the"Second Division."The Observer and Reporter, June 28th, 1832, says:"Laying the stone sills is rather a tedious operation. Messrs. Holburnand Benson, who are the contractors for this branch of the work deservegreat praise for executing their contract not only faithfully but ina style of beauty and elegance of workmanship which has excited theadmiration of all who have examined it. They are now putting in the IronRails and we hope it will not be long before the Directors will have itin their power to gratify the universal anxiety which daily increases inintensity to behold the novel spectacle of a Rail Road Carriage in rapidmotion."This desire was soon gratified according to an article in the LexingtonObserver dated August 9th, 1832, and entitled "Our Rail Road." It says:"A splendid car (the Lexington and Ohio) was placed on the Rail Road onThursday last. It made two trips, the distance the road is finished,having inside and outside about sixty passengers each trip. The crowd towitness the experiment was very great and we never saw spectators moredelighted. The opening of the Rail Road from Lexington to the Ohio Riverwill be the commencement of a new era in the history of Kentucky. Letunbelievers in the utility of Rail Roads witness but one experiment andtheir scepticism will soon vanish."On Tuesday the 14th the road we understand will be formally opened andthe car afterwards kept constantly running for the accommodation ofpassengers. The Governor of the State and the Mayor and Council of theCity of Louisville have been invited to be present on this occasion."       *       *       *       *       *The Observer and Reporter of August 16th, 1832, tells how "The Lexingtonand Ohio Rail Road was formally opened on yesterday. Among the personspresent was Gov. Metcalf. At twelve o'clock precisely the Car left itsmoorings at the upper end of the lower Market in fine style, having onboard about 40 passengers. The Road is completed entirely only about onemile and a half from its termination in this city. Other portions are ina state of great forwardness and will be ready for the Car in a few dayswhich will make the whole distance completed about 3 miles. The Cartravels at the rate of about 10 miles an hour."       *       *       *       *       *How eagerly they longed for its completion, using it for pleasure tripswhen only a mile and a half was finished! And how quaintly they spoke ofit leaving "its moorings" as though they were still thinking in terms ofrivers and flat boats and steam boats, and could only describe it inriver terms! And how they dignified it with capitals, it was always theRail Road and the Car--as if the very immensity of the undertakingdemanded capital letters. To them the "Rail Road started" or "returned,"or was "kept running," as in the article in the Observer of August 25th,1832, which says:"Two miles of the Lexington and Ohio Rail Road are now completed, andthe splendid car, "Lexington and Ohio," is kept constantly running thisdistance to gratify those who feel an interest in Rail Roads, and aredesirous of testing their utility. The Car is sufficiently large toaccommodate 60 passengers and this number is drawn by one horse, withapparently as much ease and rapidity as the same animal would draw alight gig. The delight experienced at the sight of a car loaded by sixtypassengers and drawn by one horse at the rate of ten miles an hourthrough a country where heretofore five miles per hour with onepassenger to a horse has been thought good speed, is sufficient ofitself to repay the beholder for the trouble of a journey of fiftymiles. We understand a locomotive steam engine is now being constructedto be placed upon the road as soon as the distance is opened on thewhole of the First Division."       *       *       *       *       *Having always heard the Old Lexington and Ohio Road referred to as "thefirst rail road built West of the Alleghany Mountains," I was greatlysurprised at this juncture to see how close the question of prioritybetween it and the old Pontchartrain Railway really was and being unableto decide the question myself, I beg leave to lay the evidence before myreaders and let them decide the matter according to their own judgment.Mr. J. H. Ellis, Secretary of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, ata banquet in Louisville in 1914, when speaking of the oldest railroadsbuilt West of the Alleghanies and South of the Ohio River, said: "It iscommonly believed that the oldest road is the Lexington and Ohio, so itmay surprise you to know that in point of antiquity it is beaten by thatlittle old Pontchartrain Railroad, Charles Marshall's darling, but bya remarkable coincidence, by only a week. For while the PontchartrainRailroad Company received its charter on January 20th, 1830, that of theLexington and Ohio Railroad Company is dated January 27th, 1830. And inpoint of construction the latter likewise followed the Pontchartrain."An article published in the Lexington Observer of October 4th, 1832,taken from the New Orleans Emporium of September 15th, 1832, says:"The beautiful locomotive Pontchartrain recently received from Englandcame up to the city this morning from the lake in a manner highlygratifying to the directors of the company, who were present and a largeconcourse of our citizens. It commences running Monday next at 12o'clock. The Mayor and City Council are to be present and no doubthundreds of our citizens will fill the train which will accommodatebetween three and four hundred people. This locomotive is said to be themost perfect and elegant in the Union and that there are only two inEngland equal to it. The display will be at once beautiful and imposingand will no doubt attract thousands."At this time _our_ first locomotive was "in course of construction," asthe Observer and Reporter of December 6th, 1832, says in an editorial:"We yesterday had the pleasure of examining--at the machine shop of Mr.Bruen--a new Locomotive Engine constructed for the Lexington and OhioRail Road Company. We understand the Engine will be in readiness for anexperiment on the Rail Road sometime next week."       *       *       *       *       *It is evident therefore that the Charter for the Pontchartrain Railroadwas one week older than the Charter of the Lexington and Ohio Railroad.It is also evident that the Lexington and Ohio Railroad was "formallyopened August 15th, 1832," while the formal opening of the PontchartrainRoad did not occur until September 15th, 1832, one month later thanours.It is true the Pontchartrain opened with a real locomotive while theLexington and Ohio road first used horse power. But it must also beremembered that the locomotive of the Pontchartrain Railroad was builtin Stourbridge, England, while the first locomotive for the Lexingtonand Ohio road was invented and built in Lexington by two Lexington men,Thomas Barlow and Joseph Bruen; that it was in course of construction atthe time of the opening, and that it made its trial run March 2nd, 1833,"from Lexington towards Frankfort."--So far as I have been able to learn our locomotive was the first onebuilt in the United States unless we except that of Peter Cooper, whichis said never to have given satisfaction.       *       *       *       *       *By the first of January, 1833, the first railroad advertisement appearedheaded:                    "TRAVELING"                      On The            Lexington and Ohio Rail Road  The First Six Miles of the Road Being Completed a   Passenger Car will Daily Leave the Lower Market       House for the end of the First Division          at 9-1/2 O'clock A. M. and 2-1/2                   O'clock P.M.   Returning will leave the end of the Division for       Lexington at 10 O'clock A. M. and 3-1/2                   O'clock P.M.  Companies of 12 or more can be accommodated with      a Private Car by giving one hour's notice.          Office L. & O. Rail Road Company                 January 1st, 1833And so the Rail Road became a popular diversion, and the work wasrapidly progressing all along the road toward Frankfort. Judging from anadvertisement in the Observer and Reporter of February 21st, 1833, somechange in construction must have been contemplated for it states "SealedProposals will be received at the Company's Office until the 15th ofApril next for laying 13 miles of the Second Division of the Lexingtonand Ohio Rail Road with Stone Sills, and 9 miles with Sleepers andStrong-pieces of wood.  (Signed by) H. J. RANNEY, Chief Engineer."       *       *       *       *       *Professor Muncey says: "In the 'Second Division' of the Road woodsills--red cedar in most cases--were used in some places."It is interesting to note here that the Baltimore and Ohio Railroadadvised our promoters in the first place to use the wooden sills.Quoting from the Observer and Reporter of March 2nd, 1833, "The firstsix miles of the Rail Road is now in successful operation. The Car forsome time past has run regularly three times a day and is usually filledwith passengers. It expedites the progress of mail about one hour eachtrip."Time was become a matter to be reckoned with you see.       *       *       *       *       *And in the same paper appeared the following modest announcement forwhich I had searched for days:"We are happy to learn that the steam locomotive constructed by ouringenious townsmen, Mr. Bruen, is hereafter to make regular trips onthis road."The car driver was allowed a salary of $22.50 a month. He and hisassistant were to handle the car and the horses, take up fares, handlebaggage and carry the United States mail.       *       *       *       *       *There is a quaint epitaph in an old Scotch graveyard which says "Goodtimes and bad times and all times, get over"; and so it was with ourgreat little railroad. Its Charter had boldly set the Ohio River asits destination. On October 21st, 1831, it timidly started "towardsFrankfort," and on January 31st, 1834, it reached that fair city with asigh of relief after many hardships had been endured and many obstaclesovercome. The cholera scourge of 1833 had halted its progress,difficulties had arisen through bad calculations of its engineers, andmoney was often sorely needed. Louisville seemed indifferent to itsconstruction, being comfortably "seated" on the much coveted "watercourse." So the railroad stopped to rest at Frankfort and stoppedso long it became known as the "Lexington and Frankfort Rail Road."Its arrival in Frankfort was celebrated by a grand ball at Brennan's(or Postlethwaite's) which is glitteringly described in the Gazette onJanuary 31st, 1834, as follows:"The fete given last night at Brennan's Hotel to the members of theLegislature and to celebrate the opening of the Rail Road from here toFrankfort was truly a most brilliant affair. The company bestowed justpraises on the taste and munificence of Mr. Brennan, for the splendorand profusion of the supper and refreshments, which appeared as if"earth and sky and sea" had been plundered of their sweets. The companymust have numbered from four to five hundred persons who weredistributed in the various rooms of the basement story where dancingparties were kept up till two o'clock. Like the Brussells Ball, we toohad gathered from the Capital--  'Her beauty and her chivalry, and bright  The lamps shone over fair women and brave men,  A thousand hearts beat happily; and when  Music arose with its voluptuous swell  Soft eyes looked love to eyes which spake again  And all went merry as a marriage bell.'A majority of the members of both branches of the Legislature werepresent on the occasion it is said, together with the Mayor and Councilof Lexington. For ourselves we did not play a part in the mazy dance butwas content to look on others--  'Steer with care through all that glittering sea  Of gems and plumes and pearls and silks to where  He deems it is his proper place to be  Dissolving in the waltz to some soft air  Or proudlier prancing with Mercurial skill  Where science marshalls forth her own quadrille.'"The same paper contains an account of an "elegant new locomotive," whichsays:RAIL ROAD."An elegant new locomotive of improved model has been running on theLexington and Ohio Rail Road for several days to Frankfort. The successwhich has attended the experiment thus far equals the most sanguinehopes of the projectors. Since the application of steam all doubts havebeen vanished, and we confess a very great change has been wroughtin our own minds as to the utility and value of the undertaking. Itsadvantages to the town are manifest now and if it should be completedto Louisville it will be an immense advantage to the whole commonwealthand reflect the highest credit on those who have planned and executedit. Its superiority over every other kind of locomotion will carryconviction to the minds of any who may doubt and convince the countryof the absolute necessity of completing it, to which purpose theLegislature will no doubt contribute largely.The trip from here to Frankfort will occupy about two hours when thearrangements are complete."       *       *       *       *       *This "new locomotive" may have been the "Nottaway" or "The Logan" or the"Daniel Boone." The latter, which was inclined to run behind time, wasthe butt of many jokes. One traveller is said to have asked "What isthe matter, will we never arrive?" and another replied "Let us ask theengineer to feed 'Boone' another stick of cord wood, or we will neverget there." Capt. Alfred Pirtle, Secretary of the Filson Club, says "TheBaldwin Locomotive Works have a record that they built an engine named'Daniel Boone' for the Lexington and Ohio Rail Road in 1842."       *       *       *       *       *The Observer and Reporter January 24th, 1835, says:"Several hundred of our citizens had the pleasure yesterday ofwitnessing a successful experiment on the Rail Road with the newLocomotive. Its performance justifies all our hopes. Two burthen carsand the large passenger car filled with passengers were attached to theengine. It moved off with great ease clearly indicating its ability toperform all its requirements. Every one who witnessed the experimentseemed to feel a high degree of patriotic enthusiasm that he lived ina city which had originated and thus far successfully prosecuted thismagnificent and invaluable scheme. "We learn that the Locomotive madethe trip to the Villa, a distance of six miles, in a little over 20minutes although badly provided with fuel."       *       *       *       *       *The "success of the experiment" had an unfortunate set back, however,for in the Observer and Reporter, January 24, 1835, is an account ofthe _Accident_ which caused profound distress."We have carefully prepared from authentic information the followingaccount of the melancholy occurrences of yesterday. To allay publicexcitement and prevent misrepresentation or misapprehension of factswe consider it our duty to give as brief and accurate account aspossible of those unfortunate accidents today which caused the deathof two individuals and severe injuries to four others."The splendid Locomotive Engine recently imported was placed on theroad two or three days since and has made one or more pleasure tripseach day to the Villa (6 miles) and back with perfect safety and entiresuccess. This morning it performed the trip with one large PassengerCoach containing some fifty or sixty passengers, and one burden Caralso loaded, attached to it, in 19 minutes going and about 22 minutesreturning without accident. This afternoon, as the Engineer wasproceeding from the car house a quarter of a mile below the depot inthe city a number of boys were continually trying to jump upon thetender although repeatedly forbidden to do so, till finally while theLocomotive was going at the rate of only about five or six miles perhour, a negro boy, 11 or 12 years of age, the property of Mrs. Ross, onattempting to jump on the fore part of the tender fell under it and wascrushed to death. No possible blame can attach to the Engineer as hestopped the moment he saw the boy fall, but was too late.He then came up slowly to the depot, both sides of the road being linedby hundreds of anxious spectators, and attached the Locomotive to twoburden Cars and the large Passenger Coach, before mentioned, altogethercontaining, we suppose, over 150 persons, in the following order:1st--The Engine and tender. 2nd--A common Burden Car with temporarybenches to sit on but no side on front or rear railing to protect thepassengers from falling or being pushed off; fastened with common tracechains by means of the centre beams to which the shafts are used fixedto the Locomotive. 3rd--Another common Burthen Car attached to thesecond as it was to the first giving 10 to 12 inches loose play forwardand back but with only a single bench running through the centre fromfront to rear. No railing or other protection to the passengers, whowere obliged to stand up, except a few standards along the sides for thepurpose of hauling wood. 4th--The large Passenger Coach attached to thethird as it was to the second. Before starting, more than one gentlemanwho noticed the manner of attaching the cars, and the consequent jarswhich they would inevitably receive, made remarks as to the dangeroussituation of the individuals crowded on the burden cars, but we made thetrip down safely in 24 minutes.After remaining to Wood and Water we started back with positionreversed, the large Passenger Coach in front, then the two burthen carsfollowing each other, and lastly the Locomotive, each pushing forwardthe one in front of it, by pressing the end of the centre beams, somesix inches square against each other, loosely attached as beforedescribed, by common trace chains. We had proceeded in this manner abouta mile at a moderate pace when in passing a curve, the beam of the frontburthen Car was seen to pass to the right of the rear beam of thePassenger Car, which jerked the wheels off the track and caused aconsiderable shock and great alarm. Some of the passengers on the twoburthen Cars attempted to jump off, the ground being nearly on a levelwith the road at that place; others, especially those standing in theforward burthen Car were thrown backwards and knocked off, those nearthe edge of it under the wheels of the other; some attempted to leap onthe bank, fell and rolled down, and thus all the mischief was done.Lewis Lankard and Leonard Taylor, of Lexington, Ky.; William A. Cockeand Joseph Holt, of Louisville; F. W. Trapnall, of Springfield, andDaniel Green, of Fayette County, were in this way thrown off the forwardburthen Car and under the wheels of the other. Lankard was instantlykilled; Taylor and Green had each a leg broken; Messrs. Trapnall andHolt had severe bruises and were probably saved by Lankard's fallingbefore them and in some measure stopping the car. Mr. Cocke had hisright foot firmly fastened in the forward wheel of the hindmost car andwas much injured and but for the presence of mind and promptness of theEngineer in stopping at the moment must have lost his leg and mostprobably his life; another quarter turn of the wheel would have beenfatal. He could only be released by taking that part of the Car topieces. Several other gentlemen were bruised and slightly injured. Noneof the Cars turned over and if the burthen Cars had been substantiallyrailed round or if only passenger cars had been used or all had beendrawn and not pushed, nothing serious would have been the consequence.Too much praise cannot be bestowed upon the Engineer. Although underconsiderable headway he stopped almost instantly and much sooner thana stage with horses could have been halted. May we now be permitted tomake a single suggestion or two to the Manager of the Rail Road?1st--The number of passengers to go in each Car should be limited.Huddling numbers on the top is extremely hazardous.2nd--Unless a wire sieve is fastened over the top of the chimney of theengine we shall soon have some dwelling house, barn or other buildingnear the road burnt down or the Cars themselves set on fire.In conclusion we hope that the feeling of our citizens will not be againexcited by the occurrence of such a painful and heart-rending accidentas the one over which a number have been called to mourn, as we areconfident that by proper management and strict attention it may beeasily avoided."       *       *       *       *       *Now let us consider this first locomotive engine ever used on theLexington and Ohio Railroad. This locomotive was invented by ThomasHarris Barlow (who afterward became world-famous as the inventor ofthe Planetarium) and was constructed by Joseph Bruen at his machineshops which stood near the corner of Water and Spring Streets.That wonderful little locomotive is described by one who saw it with hisown eyes, who rode behind it often, and who knew the men who inventedand constructed it quite intimately. The old gentleman I refer to wasSamuel D. McCullough, who was born in 1803 and who wrote his diary,which is now in the Lexington Public Library, in 1871."Mr. Thomas Harris Barlow was born in Nicholas County, Kentucky, (sayshis son, Milton, in a letter to me) August 5th, 1789, and resided in theState of his birth till the last year or two of his life and died inCincinnati June, 1865."I shall condense Mr. Milton Barlow's short biography of his father,which states that he had but a common school education. He was anindustrious and even a hard working student of mechanism for which hehad a wonderful natural gift, and which induced Col. R. M. Johnson toappoint him principal Military Artificer in his Regiment. He was underfire in the Battle of the Thames (1812) where he distinguished himselffor coolness and bravery. After his intermarriage with Miss Lizzie Westhe turned his attention to erecting flour, saw and other mills andbuilding and overseeing their steam motive power. In 1825 he removed toLexington and opened a machine shop."I remember myself all which followed and give my own recollections.Believing that Locomotives could be propelled at a greater velocity Mr.Barlow and Mr. Joseph Bruen, another mechanical genius, built an engineto run on the new Rail Road, just started from this place towardsFrankfort, the finished portion of the road extending then but fivemiles from this City, and on which Sunday pleasure Cars were runningdrawn by two horses.The Steam Engine was an odd concern; not more than three or four feethigh wheels, boiler and all; the pistons working perpendicularly; twocylinders _and a tongue in front to guide the steam wagon with thenecessary pilot wheel with its tiller ropes_. I never knew what becameof the engine but I have placed all that is left of the model in theMuseum of the Eastern Kentucky Lunatic Asylum along with the remnant ofEdward West's model steam engine for boats. Mr. Barlow and Mr. Bruenalso built another small steam engine which ran on a miniature oval RailRoad, in the large room, third story of the factory, corner of Water andRose Streets, drawing after it a miniature car large enough to hold onegrown person or two children. I paid my 25 cents for a ride on it.The novelty of the occasion brought multitudes of citizens, male andfemale, to see it and as Mr. Barlow quaintly and truthfully observes,'each of the visitors had to pay a small sum for the pleasure of ridingon land by steam.' I give the following remark of Mr. Barlow, Jr., justas he used it without stopping to inquire whether it be genuine orapocryphal. He says, 'This was the first steam locomotive engine evermade in America.'Mr. Barlow sold the miniature engine, Car and wooden rails to Mr. SamuelRobb, of this county, who exhibited the workings of them in 1827 in thecities of Louisville, Nashville, Memphis, Vicksburg, New Orleans, inwhich city it was consumed by fire during the year 1828. Mr. Barlowbuilt another miniature engine for Mr. Rockhill who used it forexhibition. I wish it distinctly remembered so as not to confuse dates,that the first mattock struck and the first stone laid on the Lexingtonand Louisville Rail Road were done in Lexington June 3rd, 1831, thecitizens, the Free Masons and the Military assisting in the ceremonieswhich took place at the corner of Water and Upper Streets, not ten feetfrom the present storage house of Hayman and Wooley. Prof. CharlesCaldwell, of Transylvania Medical School, made the address on theoccasion.I remember again, that the model engine of Mr. Barlow and Mr. Bruen wasrun on the miniature Rail Road _three or four years before_ the firstrail was laid on the track which was a flat iron rail on a stone sill.The great danger occurring continually from the ends of the flat railsturning upwards causing what was then called 'snake heads,' and thedisintegration of the stone sills induced the directors to change bothsills and rails to their present form.I recollect the old horse car running from here to Frankfort and back toLexington.It was in 1835, in company with my deceased friend, John J. Crittenden,who with myself was watching a splendid comet in the North West duringour ride, the horse cars were four hours in running the distance oftwenty-four miles, or six miles an hour. Upon arriving upon the hillnear Frankfort the passenger trains were sent down an inclined planedrawn by horses. Several accidents occurred which afterwards induced theDirectors to change the route to a more circuitous and safer place, theroad now in constant use. At Frankfort the passengers for Louisvilletook seats in five and six four-horse coaches, eighteen to twenty-fourpassengers each. The necessities of travel and commerce finallyculminated in finishing the Rail Road to Louisville. Lexington andFrankfort with the counties of Fayette, Woodford and Franklin did theirparts nobly, and Louisville with that symptom of haggling so usual withher, finally was induced to help finish the road to that city.Whilst upon the subject of inventors, inventions and Rail Roads, I maytell you that the two-horse-car ran from this City to Frankfort over the'flat iron' rail until 18-- when a little steam locomotive called theNottaway made one trip to Frankfort and back the same day. It drew onepassenger coach built by Mr. Ashton, the venerable coach builder of thiscity. The inside would accommodate about as many as a modern omnibusand seats on the top with an iron railing all around would seat as manymore. I have an indistinct recollection where the baggage and mailmatter were stored but I think they were given in charge of theengineer, who also in that capacity was baggage master and mail agent.I recollect distinctly the little locomotives, Nottaway and Logan.More than two-score times have I and other able bodied men gotten out ofthe passenger car when the locomotive was not able to pull the load oversome slight elevation in the road and pushed passenger car and engine upthe inclined plane of less than one degree inclination. When we arrivedat the summit of the inclination, which was about nine miles fromLexington in what was called the 'deep cut,' the engineer in themeantime having raised steam enough to carry passengers to the nextslight ascension in the road, cried 'all aboard' and away we went.'All out' was the engineer's next cry when he came to some slightascension in the road. Out we came and our shoulders were again appliedto help the little locomotive out of its terrible difficulty. Arrivingat the top of the hill at Frankfort from a four to six hours ride oftwenty-four miles we met with two serious questions either to go downthe inclined plane at nearly 40 degrees inclination free of charge ortake the hacks and carriages in waiting by paying 25 cents extra. Myold friend, Rev. Dr. R. J. Breckinridge and myself not wishing to riskour lives on the incline plane took seats in a hack. I recollect Dr.Breckinridge's remark, when he paid his extra quarter for hack hire:'I agree to pay $1.00 to be carried safely to Frankfort. I pay thisadditional 25 cents under protest as a swindle.' The driver 'took ourmonies and went his ways' and proceeded to collect 25 cents from eachpassenger going into Frankfort until some 'change' was made by theDirectors of the Rail Road."       *       *       *       *       *Mr. Andy Shepherd in an interview said he remembered the old locomotivesDaniel Boone, Logan and Joe Davis.He said the passenger coach was painted yellow. He described the firstlocomotive as having a tall smoke stack, a single wheel, and a crankaxle, with no cab, the engineer standing unprotected through wind andweather. He said it required a cord of two-foot wood to make the tripfrom Lexington to Frankfort and return, that the engineer stopped atVilla Grove and at Duckers "to wood and water." He said at first therewas one passenger and one freight train a day, that freight came fromCincinnati to Frankfort by river, and from Frankfort to Lexington byrail. When asked where the headlight for the locomotive was, he replied:"They did not need a headlight because they only travelled by daylight."(And yet one of the English commentaries which had made deepestimpression on the railroad promoters was that "Locomotives can travelsafely in the dark.")Mr. Shepherd said the old engines were finally sold for scrap iron,loaded on a flat car, and taken away. But the Logan was sold to a coalmine.       *       *       *       *       *The Gazette, November 28th, 1835, says:"There seems to be a perfect mania pervading the country on the subjectof railroads. Hardly a paper comes to hand but contains accounts ofmeetings held for the purpose of projecting one through some part oranother."       *       *       *       *       *And on January 9th, 1836:"The Mayor has called a meeting of the citizens of Lex. and Fayette Co.on Monday next at 12 o'clock to take into consideration measuresrelative to the contemplated Railroad from Charleston, S. C., to theOhio River. The meeting will take place in a Court House."       *       *       *       *       *On January 23rd, 1836:We learn that "the Directors of the R. R. Co. have declined bringingmore fire wood to this city but have offered to the agents for procuringfuel the use of their road and wood cars free of expense for thetransport of that article. The great quantity of freight at the depotsrendering this course necessary on the part of the Company."       *       *       *       *       *On December 12th, 1835, was an interesting article headed:RAIL ROAD STOCK."Four shares of Lex. and Ohio R. R. Stock were sold at public auction onMonday last at $101.00 per share, next dividend off being one per centadvance. This is some evidence of the estimation in which this stockis held. The next dividend to be struck 1st January and to which thepurchaser will not be entitled would probably have added about $5.00 pershare. We repeat that the citizens of Louisville do not duly appreciatethe importance to their city of the completion of the road from thenceto Frankfort with as little delay as possible."       *       *       *       *       *And in the same paper is an account of the sad fate of the attractivelittle Villa:FIRE."The neat little 'Villa,' so tastefully erected by Smith and Rainey andkept for some time past by Mr. Clatterbuck, on the R. R., six miles fromLex., was destroyed by fire on the night of Monday last together withmost of the furniture, liquors and a considerable sum of money. Thismisfortune will be seriously felt not only by Mr. C----, but by thetravellers on the R. R., who were always sure of a kind reception andthe solace of a cup of hot sparkling coffee at daylight after making thefirst stop from Lex. The benevolent we are sure will not be appealed toin vain to contribute something towards enabling Mr. Clatterbuck againto commence business. His loss in cash was about $700."       *       *       *       *       *And now I have told you all that I have been able to find concerningthis old Lexington and Ohio Railroad. I have traced its conception andbirth, its construction and success. I have not the heart to tell youof its slow and lingering death, how it became antiquated, ridiculed,supplanted and re-constructed, how it was mortgaged and sold, andfinally became merged into the great Louisville and Nashville systemand how its very history became clouded in tradition.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Pioneer Railway of the West, by Maude Ward Lafferty*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A PIONEER RAILWAY OF THE WEST ******** This file should be named 27256.txt or 27256.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/7/2/5/27256/Produced by David Garcia and the Online DistributedProofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file wasproduced from images generously made available by TheKentuckiana Digital Library)Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo no