 being like this, John.''Go on being like yourself, dear.''Am I foolish?''Um.''Oh, but, John, how can you be so calm--with him up there?''He has been up there a good deal, you know, since we presented him toan astounded world nineteen years ago.''But he--he is not going to be up there much longer, John.' She sits onthe arm of his chair, so openly to wheedle him that it is not worth hiswhile to smile. Her voice is tremulous; she is a woman who can concealnothing. 'You will be nice to him--to-night--won't you, John?'Mr. Torrance is a little pained. 'Do I just begin to-night, Ellen?''Oh no, no; but I think he is rather--shy of you at times.''That,' he says a little wryly, 'is because he is my son, Ellen.''Yes--it's strange; but--yes.'With a twinkle that is not all humorous, 'Did it ever strike you, Ellen,that I am a bit--shy of him?'She is indeed surprised. 'Of Rogie!''I suppose it is because I am his father.'She presumes that this is his sarcasm again, and lets it pass at that.It reminds her of what she wants to say.'You are so sarcastic,' she has never quite got the meaning of thisword, 'to Rogie at times. Boys don't like that, John.''Is that so, Ellen?''Of course I don't mind your being sarcastic to _me_--''Much good,' groaning, 'my being sarcastic to you! You are so seldomaware of it.''I am not asking you to be a mother to him, John.''Thank you, my dear.'She does not know that he is sarcastic again. 'I quite understand thata man can't think all the time about his son as a mother does.''Can't he, Ellen? What makes you so sure of that?''I mean that a boy naturally goes to his mother with his troubles ratherthan to his father. Rogie tells me everything.'Mr. Torrance is stung. 'I daresay he might tell me things he wouldn'ttell you.'She smiles at this. It is very probably sarcasm.'I want you to be serious just now. Why not show more warmth to him,John?'With an unspoken sigh, 'It would terrify him, Ellen. Two men show warmthto each other! Shame, woman!''Two men!' indignantly. 'John, he is only nineteen.''That's all,' patting her hand. 'Ellen, it is the great age to beto-day, nineteen.'Emma darts in.'Mother, he has unlocked the door! He is taking a last look at himselfin the mirror before coming down!'Having made the great announcement, she is off again.'You won't be sarcastic, John?''I give you my word--if you promise not to break down.'Rashly, 'I promise.' She hurries to the door and back again. 'John, I'llcontrive to leave you and him alone together for a little.'Mr. Torrance is as alarmed as if the judge had looked over the bench andasked where he was. 'For God's sake, woman, don't do that! Father andson! He'll bolt; or if he doesn't, I will.'Emma Torrance flings open the door grandly, and we learn what all theto-do is about.EMMA. 'Allow me to introduce 2nd Lieutenant Torrance of the RoyalSussex. Father--your son; 2nd Lieutenant Torrance--your father.Mother--your little Rogie.'Roger, in uniform, walks in, strung up for the occasion. Or the uniformcomes forward with Roger inside it. He has been a very ordinary nice boyup to now, dull at his 'books'; by an effort Mr. Torrance had sent himto an obscure boarding-school, but at sixteen it was evident that anoffice was the proper place for Roger. Before the war broke out he wastreasurer of the local lawn tennis club, and his golf handicap wasseven; he carried his little bag daily to and from the city, and hishighest relaxation was giggling with girls or about them. Socially hehad fallen from the standards of the home; even now that he is in hisuniform the hasty might say something clever about 'temporarygentlemen.'But there are great ideas buzzing in Roger's head, which would neverhave been there save for the war. At present he is chiefly conscious ofhis clothes. His mother embraces him with cries of rapture, while Mr.Torrance surveys him quizzically over the paper; and Emma, rushing tothe piano, which is of such an old-fashioned kind that it can also beused as a sideboard, plays 'See the Conquering Hero Comes.'ROGER, in an agony, 'Mater, do stop that chit making an ass of me.'He must be excused for his 'mater.' That was the sort of school; and hismother is rather proud of the phrase, though it sometimes makes hisfather wince.MRS. TORRANCE. 'Emma, please, don't. But I'm sure you deserve it, mydarling. Doesn't he, John?'MR. TORRANCE, missing his chance, 'Hardly yet, you know. Can't beexactly a conquering hero the first night you put them on, can you,Roger?'ROGER, hotly, 'Did I say I was?'MRS. TORRANCE. 'Oh, John! Do turn round, Rogie. I never did--I neverdid!'EMMA. 'Isn't he a pet!'ROGER. 'Shut up, Emma.'MRS. TORRANCE, challenging the world, 'Though I say it who shouldn't--andyet, why shouldn't I?'MR. TORRANCE. 'In any case you will--so go ahead, "mater."'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I knew he would look splendid; but I--of course Icouldn't know that he would look quite so splendid as this.'ROGER. 'I know I look a bally ass. That is why I was such a time incoming down.'MR. TORRANCE. 'We thought we heard you upstairs strutting about.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'John! Don't mind him, Rogie.'ROGER, haughtily, 'I don't.'MR. TORRANCE. 'Oh!'ROGER. 'But I wasn't strutting.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'That dreadful sword! No, I would prefer you not to drawit, dear--not till necessity makes you.'MR. TORRANCE. 'Come, come, Ellen; that's rather hard lines on the boy.If he isn't to draw it here, where is he to draw it?'EMMA, with pride, 'At the Front, father.'MR. TORRANCE. 'I thought they left them at home nowadays, Roger?'ROGER. 'Yes, mater; you see, they are a bit in the way.'MRS. TORRANCE, foolishly, 'Not when you have got used to them.'MR. TORRANCE. 'That isn't what Roger means.' (His son glares.)EMMA, who, though she has not formerly thought much of Roger, is nowproud to trot by his side and will henceforth count the salutes, 'I knowwhat he means. If you carry a sword the snipers know you are an officer,and they try to pick you off.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'It's no wonder they are called Huns. Fancy a Britishsniper doing that! Roger, you will be very careful, won't you, in thetrenches?'ROGER. 'Honour bright, mater.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'Above all, don't look up.'MR. TORRANCE. 'The trenches ought to be so deep that they can't look up.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'What a good idea, John.'ROGER. 'He's making game of you, mater.'MRS. TORRANCE, unruffled, 'Is he, my own?--very likely. Now about thequestion of provisions--'ROGER. 'Oh, lummy, you talk as if I was going off to-night! I mayn't gofor months and months.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I know--and, of course, there is a chance that you maynot be needed at all.'ROGER, poor boy, 'None of that, mater.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'There is something I want to ask you, John--How long doyou think the war is likely to last?' Her John resumes his paper.'Rogie, I know you will laugh at me, but there are some things that Icould not help getting for you.'ROGER. 'You know, you have knitted enough things already to fit up mywhole platoon.'MRS. TORRANCE, proud almost to tears, 'His platoon.'EMMA. 'Have you noticed how fine all the words in -oon are? Platoon!Dragoon!'MR. TORRANCE. 'Spitoon!'EMMA. 'Colonel is good, but rather papaish; Major is nosey; Admiral ofthe Fleet is scrumptious, but Marechal de France--that is the best ofall.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I think there is nothing so nice as 2nd Lieutenant.'Gulping, 'Lot of little boys.'ROGER. 'Mater!'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I mean, just think of their cold feet.' She producesmany parcels and displays their strange contents. 'Those are for puttinginside your socks. Those are for outside your socks. I am told that itis also advisable to have straw in your boots.'MR. TORRANCE. 'Have you got him some straw?'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I thought, John, he could get it there. But if youthink--'ROGER. 'He's making fun of you again, mater.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I shouldn't wonder. Here are some overalls. One isleather and one fur, and this one is waterproof. The worst of it is thatthey are from different shops, and each says that the others keep thedamp in, or draw the feet. They have such odd names, too. There are newnames for everything nowadays. Vests are called cuirasses. Are youlaughing at me, Rogie?'MR. TORRANCE, sharply, 'If he is laughing, he ought to be ashamed ofhimself.'ROGER, barking, 'Who was laughing?'MRS. TORRANCE. 'John!'Emma cuffs her father playfully.MR. TORRANCE. 'All very well, Emma, but it's past your bedtime.'EMMA, indignantly, 'You can't expect me to sleep on a night like this.'MR. TORRANCE. 'You can try.'MRS. TORRANCE. '2nd Lieutenant! 2nd Lieutenant!'MR. TORRANCE, alarmed, 'Ellen, don't break down. You promised.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I am not going to break down; but--but there is aphotograph of Rogie when he was very small--'MR. TORRANCE. 'Go to bed!'MRS. TORRANCE. 'I happen--to have it in my pocket--'ROGER. 'Don't bring it out, mater.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'If I break down, John, it won't be owing to the pictureitself so much as because of what is written on the back.'She produces it dolefully.MR. TORRANCE. 'Then don't look at the back.'He takes it from her.MRS. TORRANCE, not very hopeful of herself, 'But I know what is writtenon the back, "Roger John Torrance, aged two years four months, andthirty-three pounds."'MR. TORRANCE. 'Correct.' She weeps softly. 'There, there, woman.' Hesigns imploringly to Emma.EMMA, kissing him, 'I'm going to by-by. 'Night, mammy. 'Night, Rog.' Sheis about to offer him her cheek, then salutes instead, and rushes off,with Roger in pursuit.MRS. TORRANCE. 'I shall leave you together, John.'MR. TORRANCE, half liking it, but nervous, 'Do you think it's wise?'With a groan, 'You know what I am.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'Do be nice to him, dear.' Roger's return finds her veryartful indeed, 'I wonder where I put my glasses?'ROGER. 'I'll look for them.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'No, I remember now. They are upstairs in such a funnyplace that I must go myself. Do you remember, Rogie, that I hoped theywould reject you on account of your eyes?'ROGER. 'I suppose you couldn't help it.'MRS. TORRANCE, beaming on her husband, 'Did you believe I really meantit, John?'MR. TORRANCE, curious, 'Did _you_, Roger?'ROGER. 'Of course. Didn't you, father?'MR. TORRANCE. 'No! I knew the old lady better.'He takes her hand.MRS. TORRANCE, sweetly, 'I shouldn't have liked it, Rogie dear. I'lltell you something. You know your brother Harry died when he was seven.To you, I suppose, it is as if he had never been. You were barely five.ROGER. 'I don't remember him, mater.'MRS. TORRANCE. 'No--no. But I do, Rogie. He would be twenty-one now; butthough you and Emma grew up I have always gone on seeing him as justseven. Always till the war broke out. And now I see him a man oftwenty-one, dressed in khaki, fighting for his country, same as you.I wouldn't have had one of you stay at home, though I had had a dozen.That is, if it is the noble war they all say it is. I'm not clever,Rogie, I have to take it on trust. Surely they wouldn't deceive mothers.I'll get my glasses.'She goes away, leaving the father and son somewhat moved. It is Mr.Torrance who speaks first, gruffly.'Like to change your mother, Roger?'The answer is also gruff. 'What do _you_ think?'Then silence falls. These two are very conscious of being together,without so much as the tick of a clock to help them. The father clingsto his cigar, sticks his knife into it, studies the leaf, tries crossinghis legs another way. The son examines the pictures on the walls as ifhe had never seen them before, and is all the time edging toward thedoor.Mr. Torrance wets his lips; it must be now or never, 'Not going, Roger?'Roger counts the chairs. 'Yes, I thought--''Won't you--sit down and--have a chat?'Roger is bowled over. 'A what? You and me!''Why not?' rather truculently.'Oh--oh, all right,' sitting uncomfortably.The cigar gets several more stabs.'I suppose you catch an early train to-morrow?''The 5.20. I have flag-signalling at half-past six.''Phew! Hours before I shall be up.''I suppose so.''Well, you needn't dwell on it, Roger.'Indignantly. 'I didn't.' He starts up. 'Good-night, father.''Good-night. Damn. Come back. My fault. Didn't I say I wanted to havea chat with you?''I thought we had had it.'Gloomingly, 'No such luck.'There is another pause. A frightened ember in the fire makes an appealto some one to say something. Mr. Torrance rises. It is now he who iscasting eyes at the door. He sits again, ashamed of himself.'I like your uniform, Roger,' he says pleasantly.Roger wriggles. 'Haven't you made fun of me enough?'Sharply, 'I'm not making fun of you. Don't you see I'm trying to tellyou that I'm proud of you?'Roger is at last aware of it, with a sinking. He appeals, 'Good lord,father, _you_ are not going to begin now.'The father restrains himself.'Do you remember, Roger, my saying that I didn't want you to smoke tillyou were twenty?''Oh, it's that, is it?' Shutting his mouth tight, 'I never promised.'Almost with a shout, 'It's not that.' Then kindly, 'Have a cigar, my boy?''Me?'A rather shaky hand, passes him a cigar case. Roger selects from it andlights up nervously. He is now prepared for the worst.'Have you ever wondered, Roger, what sort of a fellow I am?'Guardedly, 'Often.'Mr. Torrance casts all sense of decency to the winds; such is one of theeffects of war.'I have often wondered what sort of fellow you are, Roger. We have bothbeen at it on the sly. I suppose that is what makes a father and son souncomfortable in each other's presence.'Roger is not yet prepared to meet him half-way, but he casts a line.'Do you feel the creeps when you are left alone with me?''Mortally, Roger. My first instinct is to slip away.''So is mine,' with deep feeling.'You don't say so!' with such surprise that the father undoubtedly goesup a step in the son's estimation. 'I always seem to know what you arethinking, Roger.''Do you? Same here.''As a consequence it is better, it is right, it is only decent that youand I should be very chary of confidences with each other.'Roger is relieved. 'I'm dashed glad you see it in that way.''Oh, quite. And yet, Roger, if you had to answer this question on oath,"Whom do you think you are most like in this world?" I don't meansuperficially, but deep down in your vitals, what would you say? Yourmother, your uncle, one of your friends on the golf links?''No.''Who?'Darkly, 'You.''Just how I feel.'There is such true sympathy in the manly avowal that Roger cannot but bebrought closer to his father.'It's pretty ghastly, father.''It is. I don't know which it is worse for.'They consider each other without bitterness.'You are a bit of a wag at times, Roger.''You soon shut me up.''I have heard that you sparkle more freely in my absence.''They say the same about you.''And now that you mention it, I believe it is true; and yet, isn't ita bigger satisfaction to you to catch me relishing your jokes than anyother person?'Roger's eyes open wide. 'How did you know that?''Because I am so bucked if I see you relishing mine.''_Are_ you?' Roger's hold on the certain things in life areslipping. 'You don't show it.''That is because of our awkward relationship.'Roger lapses into gloom. 'We have got to go through with it.'His father kicks the coals. 'There's no way out.''No.''We have, as it were, signed a compact, Roger, never to let on that wecare for each other. As gentlemen we must stick to it.''Yes. What are you getting at, father?''There is a war on, Roger.''That needn't make any difference.''Yes, it does. Roger, be ready; I hate to hit you without warning. I'mgoing to cast a grenade into the middle of you. It's this, I'm fond ofyou, my boy.'Roger squirms. 'Father, if any one were to hear you!''They won't. The door is shut, Amy is gone to bed, and all is quiet inour street. Won't you--won't you say something civil to me in return,Roger?'Roger looks at him and away from him. 'I sometimes--bragged about youat school.'Mr. Torrance is absurdly pleased. 'Did you? What sort of things, Roger?''I--I forget.''Come on, Roger.''Is this fair, father?''No, I suppose it isn't.' Mr. Torrance attacks the coals again. 'You andyour mother have lots of confidences, haven't you?''I tell her a good deal. Somehow--''Yes, somehow one can.' With the artfulness that comes of years, 'I'mglad you tell her everything.'Roger looks down his cigar. 'Not everything, father. There arethings--about oneself--''Aren't there, Roger!''Best not to tell her.''Yes--yes. If there are any of them you would care to tell meinstead--just if you want to, mind--just if you are in a hole oranything?''No thanks,' very stiffly.'Any little debts, for instance?''That's all right now. Mother--''She did?'Roger is ready to jump at him. 'I was willing to speak to you aboutthem, but--''She said, "Not worth while bothering father."''How did you know?''Oh, I have met your mother before, you see. Nothing else?''No.''Haven't been an ass about a girl or anything of that sort?'''Good lord, father!''I shouldn't have said it. In my young days we sometimes--It's alldifferent now.''I don't know, I could tell you things that would surprise you.''No! Not about yourself?''No. At least--''Just as you like, Roger.''It blew over long ago.''Then there's no need?''No--oh no. It was just--you know--the old, old story.'He eyes his father suspiciously, but not a muscle in Mr. Torrance'scountenance is out of place.'I see. It hasn't--left you bitter about the sex, Roger, I hope?''Not now. She--you know what women are.''Yes, yes.''You needn't mention it to mother.''I won't.' Mr. Torrance is elated to share a secret with Roger aboutwhich mother is not to know. 'Think your mother and I are an aged pair,Roger?''I never--of course you are not young.''How long have you known that? I mean, it's true--but I didn't know ittill quite lately.''That you're old?''Hang it, Roger, not so bad as that--elderly. This will stagger you; butI assure you that until the other day I jogged along thinking of myselfas on the whole still one of the juveniles.' He makes a wry face. 'Icrossed the bridge, Roger, without knowing it.''What made you know?''What makes us know all the new things, Roger?--the war. I'll tell youa secret. When we realised in August of 1914 that myriads of us were tobe needed, my first thought wasn't that I had a son, but that I must getfit myself.''You!''Funny, isn't it?' says Mr. Torrance quite nastily. 'But, as I tell you,I didn't know I had ceased to be young, I went into Regent's Park andtried to run a mile.''Lummy, you might have killed yourself.''I nearly did--especially as I had put a weight on my shoulders torepresent my kit. I kept at it for a week, but I knew the game was up.The discovery was pretty grim, Roger.''Don't you bother about that part of it. You are doing your share,taking care of mother and Emma.'Mr. Torrance emits a laugh of self-contempt. 'I am not taking care ofthem. It is you who are taking care of them. My friend, you are the headof the house now.''Father!''Yes, we have come back to hard facts, and the defender of the house isthe head of it.''Me? Fudge.''It's true. The thing that makes me wince most is that some of mycontemporaries have managed to squeeze back: back into youth, Roger,though I guess they were a pretty tight fit in the turnstile. There isCoxon; he is in khaki now, with his hair dyed, and when he and I meet atthe club we know that we belong to different generations. I'm a decentold fellow, but I don't really count any more, while Coxon, lucky dog,is being damned daily on parade.''I hate your feeling it in that way, father.''I don't say it is a palatable draught, but when the war is over weshall all shake down to the new conditions. No fear of my beingsarcastic to you then, Roger. I'll have to be jolly respectful.''Shut up, father!''You've begun, you see. Don't worry, Roger. Any rawness I might feelin having missed the chance of seeing whether I was a man--like Coxon,confound him!--is swallowed up in the pride of giving the chance toyou. I'm in a shiver about you, but--It's all true, Roger, what yourmother said about 2nd Lieutenants. Till the other day we were so littleof a military nation that most of us didn't know there _were_ 2ndLieutenants. And now, in thousands of homes we feel that there isnothing else. 2nd Lieutenant! It is like a new word to us--one, Idaresay, of many that the war will add to our language. We have takento it, Roger. If a son of mine were to tarnish it--''I'll try not to,' Roger growls.'If you did, I should just know that there had been something wrongabout me.'Gruffly, 'You're all right.''If I am, you are.' It is a winning face that Mr. Torrance turns on hisson. 'I suppose you have been asking yourself of late, what if you wereto turn out to be a funk!''Father, how did you know?''I know because you are me. Because ever since there was talk of thiscommission I have been thinking and thinking what were you thinking--soas to help you.'This itself is a help. Roger's hand--but he withdraws it hurriedly.'They all seem to be so frightfully brave, father,' he says wistfully.'I expect, Roger, that the best of them had the same qualms as youbefore their first engagement.''I--I kind of think, father, that I won't be a funk.''I kind of think so too, Roger.' Mr. Torrance forgets himself. 'Mind youdon't be rash, my boy; and for God's sake, keep your head down in thetrenches.'Roger has caught him out. He points a gay finger at his anxious father.'You know you laughed at mother for saying that!''Did I? Roger, your mother thinks that I have an unfortunate manner withyou.'The magnanimous Roger says, 'Oh, I don't know. It's just thefather-and-son complication.''That is really all it is. But she thinks I should show my affection foryou more openly.'Roger wriggles again. Earnestly, 'I wouldn't do that.' Nicely, 'Ofcourse for this once--but in a general way I wouldn't do that. _We_know, you and I.''As long as we know, it's no one else's affair, is it?''That's the ticket, father.''Still--' It is to be feared that Mr. Torrance is now taking advantageof his superior slyness. 'Still, before your mother--to please her--eh?'Faltering, 'I suppose it would.''Well, what do you say?''I know she would like it.''Of course you and I know that display of that sort is allbunkum--repellent even to our natures.''Lord, yes!''But to gratify her.''I should be so conscious.'Mr. Torrance is here quite as sincere as his son. 'So should I.'Roger considers it. 'How far would you go?''Oh, not far. Suppose I called you "Old Rogie"? There's not much inthat.''It all depends on the way one says these things.''I should be quite casual.''Hum. What would you like me to call you?'Severely, 'It isn't what would _I_ like. But I daresay your motherwould beam if you called me "dear father"''I don't think so?''You know quite well that you think so, Roger.''It's so effeminate.''Not if you say it casually.'With something very like a snort Roger asks, 'How does one say a thinglike that casually?''Well, for instance, you could whistle while you said it--or anything ofthat sort.''Hum. Of course you--if we were to--be like that, you wouldn't doanything.''How do you mean?''You wouldn't paw me?''Roger,' with some natural indignation, 'you forget yourself.' Butapparently it is for him to continue. 'That reminds me of a story Iheard the other day of a French general. He had asked for volunteersfrom his airmen for some specially dangerous job--and they all steppedforward. Pretty good that. Then three were chosen and got their ordersand saluted, and were starting off when he stopped them. "Since when,"he said, "have brave boys departing to the post of danger omitted toembrace their father?" They did it then. Good story?'Roger lowers. 'They were French.''Yes, I said so. Don't you think it's good?''Why do you tell it to me?''Because it's a good story.''You are sure, father,' sternly, 'that there is no other reason?' Mr.Torrance tries to brazen it out, but he looks guilty. 'You know, father,that is barred.'Just because he knows that he has been playing it low, Mr. Torrancesnaps angrily, 'What is barred?''You know,' says his monitor.Mr. Torrance shouts.'I know that you are a young ass.''Really, father--''Hold your tongue.'Roger can shout also.'I must say, father--''Be quiet, I tell you.'It is in the middle of this competition that the lady who dotes on themboth chooses to come back, still without her spectacles.'Oh dear! And I had hoped---Oh, John!'Mr. Torrance would like to kick himself.'My fault,' he says with a groan.'But whatever is the matter?''Nothing, mater.' The war is already making Roger quite smart. 'Onlyfather wouldn't do as I told him.'Mr. Torrance cannot keep pace with his son's growth. He raps out, 'Whythe dickens should I?'Roger is imperturbable; this will be useful in France. 'You see, mater,he said I was the head of the house.''You, Rogie!' She goes to her husband's side. 'What nonsense!'Roger grins. 'Do you like my joke, father?'The father smiles upon him and is at once uproariously happy. He digshis boy boldly in the ribs.'Roger, you scoundrel!''That's better,' says Mrs. Torrance at a venture.Roger feels that things have perhaps gone far enough. 'I think I'll goto my room now. You will come up, mater?''Yes, dear. I shan't be five minutes, John.''More like half an hour.'She hesitates. 'There is nothing wrong, is there? I thought I noticeda--a----''A certain liveliness, my dear. No, we were only having a good talk.''What about, John?' wistfully.'About the war,' Roger breaks in hurriedly.'About tactics and strategy, wasn't it, Roger?''Yes.''The fact is, Ellen, I have been helping Roger to take his firsttrench.' With a big breath, 'And we took it too, together, didn't we,Roger?''You bet,' says Roger valiantly.'Though I suppose,' sighing, 'it is one of those trenches that the enemyretake during the night.''Oh, I--I don't know, father.'The lady asks, 'Whatever are you two talking about?''Aha,' says Mr. Torrance in high feather, patting her, but unable toresist a slight boast, 'it is very private. _We_ don't tell youeverything, you know, Ellen.'She beams, though she does not understand.'Come on, mater, it's only his beastly sarcasm again. 'Night, father; Iwon't see you in the morning.'''Night,' says Mr. Torrance.But Roger has not gone yet. He seems to be looking for something--abook, perhaps. Then he begins to whistle--casually.'Good-night, dear father.'Mr. John Torrance is left alone, rubbing his hands.BARBARA'S WEDDINGThe Colonel is in the sitting-room of his country cottage, staringthrough the open windows at his pretty garden. He is a very old man, andis sometimes bewildered nowadays. He calls to Dering, the gardener, whois on a ladder, pruning. Dering, who comes to him, is a rough, capableyoung fellow with fingers that are already becoming stumpy because he sooften uses his hands instead of a spade. This is a sign that Dering willnever get on in the world. His mind is in the same condition as hisfingers, working back to clods. He will get a rise of one and sixpencein a year or two, and marry on it and become duller and heavier; and, inshort, the clever ones could already write his epitaph.       *       *       *       *       *'A beautiful morning, Dering.''Too much sun, sir. The roses be complaining, and, to make mattersworse, Miss Barbara has been watering of them--in the heat of the day.'The Colonel is a very gentle knight nowadays. 'Has she? She means well.'But that is not what is troubling him. He approaches the subjectdiffidently. 'Dering, you heard it, didn't you?' He is longing to betold that Dering heard it.'What was that, sir?''The thunderstorm--early this morning.''There was no thunderstorm, sir.'Dispirited, 'That is what they all say.' The Colonel is too courteous tocontradict any one, but he tries again; there is about him theinsistence of one who knows that he is right. 'It was at four o'clock. Igot up and looked out at the window. The evening primroses were verybeautiful.'Dering is equally dogged. 'I don't hold much with evening primroses,sir; but I was out and about at four; there was no thunderstorm.'The Colonel still thinks that there was a thunderstorm, but he wants toplacate Dering. 'I suppose I just thought there was one. Perhaps it wassome thunderstorm of long ago that I heard. They do come back, youknow.'Heavily, 'Do they, sir?''I am glad to see you moving about in the garden, Dering, witheverything just as usual.'There is a cautious slyness about this, as if the Colonel was fishingfor information; but it is too clever for Dering, who is going with a'Thank you, sir.''No, don't go.' The old man lowers his voice and makes a confessionreluctantly, 'I am--a little troubled, Dering.'Dering knows that his master has a wandering mind, and he answersnicely, 'Everything be all right, sir.''I'm glad of that,' the Colonel says with relief. 'It is pleasant to seethat you have come back, Dering. Why did you go away for such a longtime?''Me, sir?' Dering is a little aggrieved. 'I haven't had a day off sinceChristmas.''Haven't you? I thought--'The Colonel tries to speak casually, but there is a trembling eagernessin his voice. 'Is everything just as usual, Dering?''Yes, sir. There never were a place less changed than this.''That's true.' The Colonel is appeased. 'Thank you, Dering, for sayingthat.' But next moment he has lowered his voice again. 'Dering, there isnothing wrong, is there? Is anything happening that I am not being toldabout?''Not that I know of, sir.''That is what they all say, but--I don't know.' He stares at his oldsword which is hanging on the wall. 'Dering, I feel as if I was neededsomewhere. I don't know where it is. No one will tell me. Where is everyone?''They're all about, sir. There's a cricket match on at the villagegreen.''Is there?''If the wind had a bit of south in it you could hear their voices. Youwere a bit of a nailer at cricket yourself, sir.'The Colonel sees himself standing up to fast ones. He is gleeful overhis reminiscences.'Ninety-nine against Mallowfield, and then bowled off my pads. Biggestscore I ever made. Mallowfield wanted to add one to make it the hundred,but I wouldn't let them. I was pretty good at steering them through theslips, Dering! Do you remember my late cut? It didn't matter where pointstood, I got past him. You used to stand at point, Dering.''That was my grandfather, sir. If he was to be believed, he used to snapyou regular at point.'The Colonel is crestfallen, but he has a disarming smile. 'Did he? Idaresay he did. I can't play now, but I like to watch it still.' Hebecomes troubled again. 'Dering, there is no cricket on the greento-day. I have been down to look. I don't understand it, Dering. When Igot there the green was all dotted with them--it's the prettiest sightand sound in England. But as I watched them they began to go away, oneand two at a time; they weren't given out, you know, they went as ifthey had been called away. Some of the little shavers stayed on--andthen they went off, as if they had been called away too. The stumps wereleft lying about. Why is it?''It's just fancy, sir,' Dering says soothingly, 'I saw Master Willoiling his bat yesterday.''Did you?' avidly. 'I should have liked to see that. I have often oiledtheir bats for them. Careless lads, they always forget. Was that niceGerman boy with him?''Mr. Karl? Not far off, sir. He was sitting by the bank of the streamplaying on his flute; and Miss Barbara, she had climbed one of myapple-trees,--she says they are your trees.' He lowers.'They are, you know, Dering,' the Colonel says meekly.'Yes, sir, in a sense,' brushing the spurious argument aside, 'but Idon't like any of you to meddle with them. And there she sat, peltingthe two of them with green apples.''How like her!' The Colonel shakes his head indulgently. 'I don't knowhow we are to make a demure young lady of her.'Dering smirks. 'They say in the village, sir, that Master Will wouldlike to try.'To the Colonel this is wit of a high order.'Ha! ha! he is just a colt himself.' But the laughter breaks off. Heseems to think that he will get the truth if Dering comes closer, 'Whoare all here now, Dering; in the house, I mean? I sometimes forget. Theygrow old so quickly. They go out at one door in the bloom of youth, andcome back by another, tired and grey. Haven't you noticed it?''No, sir. The only visitors staying here are Miss Barbara and Mr. Karl.There's just them and yourselves, sir, you and the mistress and MasterWill. That's all.''Yes, that's all,' his master says, still unconvinced. 'Who is thesoldier, Dering?''Soldier, sir? There is no soldier here except yourself.''Isn't there? There was a nurse with him. Who is ill?''No one, sir. There's no nurse.' Dering backs away from the old man.'Would you like me to call the mistress, sir?''No, she has gone down to the village. She told me why, but I forget.Miss Barbara is with her.''Miss Barbara is down by the stream, sir.''Is she? I think they said they were going to a wedding.' With an oldman's curiosity, 'Who is being married to-day, Dering?''I have heard of no wedding, sir. But here is Miss Barbara.'It is perhaps the first time that Dering has been glad to see MissBarbara, who romps in, a merry hoyden, running over with animal spirits.'Here's the tomboy!' the Colonel cries gaily.Barbara looks suspiciously from one to the other.'Dering, I believe you are complaining to the Colonel about my wateringthe flowers at the wrong time of day.''Aha! Aha!' The Colonel thinks she is even wittier than Dering, who isproperly abashed.'I did just mention it, miss.''You horrid!' Barbara shakes her mop of hair at the gardener. 'Dear,don't mind him. And every time he says they are _his_ flowers and_his_ apples, you tell me, and I shall say to his face that theyare _yours_.''The courage of those young things!' says the happy Colonel.Dering's underlip becomes very pronounced, but he goes off into thegarden. Barbara attempts to attend to the Colonel's needs.'Let me make you comfy--the way granny does it.'She arranges his cushions clumsily.'That is not quite the way she does it,' the Colonel says softly, 'Doyou call her granny, Barbara?''She asked me to--for practice.' Barbara is curious. 'Don't you rememberwhy?'Of course the Colonel remembers.'I know! Billy boy.''You _are_ quick to-day. Now, wait till I get your cane.''I don't need my cane while I'm sitting.''You look so beau'ful, sitting holding your cane.' She knocks over hiscushions. 'Oh dear! I am a clumsy.'Politely, 'Not at all, but perhaps if I were to do it for myself.' Hemakes himself comfortable. 'That's better. Thank you, Barbara, verymuch.''_I_ didn't do it. I'm all thumbs. What a ghastly nurse I shouldmake.''Nurse?' The Colonel's troubles return to him. 'Who is she, Barbara?''Who is who, dear?''That nurse.''There's no nurse here.''Isn't there?'Barbara feels that she is of less use than ever to-day. 'Where isgranny?''She has gone down to the village to a wedding.''There's no wedding. Who could be being married?''I think it's people I know, but I can't remember who they are. Ithought you went too, Barbara.''Not I. Catch me missing it if there had been a wedding!''You and the nurse.''Dear, you have just been imagining things again. Shall I play to you,or sing?' She knocks over a chair, 'Oh dear, everything catches in me.Would you like me to "Robin Adair," dear?'The Colonel is polite, but firm, 'No, thank you, Barbara.' For a fewmoments he forgets her; his mind has gone wandering again. 'Barbara, thehouse seems so empty. Where are Billy and Karl?''Billy is where Karl is, you may be sure.''And where is Karl?''He is where Billy boy is, you may be sure.''And where are they both?''Not far from where Barbara is, you bet.' She flutters to the window andwaves her hand. 'Do you hear Karl's flute? They have been down all themorning at the pool where the alder is, trying to catch thatbull-trout.''They didn't get him, I'll swear!''You can ask them.''I spent a lot of my youth trying to get that bull-trout. I tumbled inthere sixty years ago.''I tumbled in sixty minutes ago! It can't be the same trout, dear.''Same old rascal!'Billy and Karl come in by the window, leaving a fishing-rod outside.They are gay, careless, attractive youths.BARBARA, with her nose in the air, 'You muddy things!'COLONEL, gaily firing his dart, 'Did you get the bull-trout, Billy boy?'BILLY. 'He's a brute that.'COLONEL. 'He is, you know.'BILLY. 'He came up several times and had a look at my fly. Didn't flickit, or do anything as complimentary as that. Just yawned and went down.'COLONEL. 'Yawned, did he? Used to wink in my time. Did you and Billyfish at Heidelberg, Karl?'KARL. 'We were more worthily employed, sir, but we did unbend at times.Billy, do you remember--' He begins a gay dance.BILLY. 'Not I.' Then he joins in.BARBARA. 'Young gentlemen, how disgraceful!' She joins in.COLONEL. 'Harum-scarums!'KARL. 'Does he know about you two?'BILLY. 'He often forgets, I'll tell him again. Grandfather, Barbara andI have something to say to you. It's this.' He puts his arm roundBarbara.COLONEL, smiling, 'I know--I know. There's nothing like it. I'm veryglad, Barbara.'BARBARA. 'You see, dear, I've loved Billy boy since the days when hetried to catch the bull-trout with a string and a bent pin, and I heldon to his pinafore to prevent his tumbling in. We used to play at schoolat marrying and giving in marriage, and the girl who was my bridegroomhad always to take the name of Billy. "Do you, woman, take this manBilly--" the clergyman in skirts began, and before I could answerdiffidently, some other girl was sure to shout, "I should rather thinkshe does."'COLONEL, in high good humour, 'Don't forget the ring, Billy. You know,when I was married I think I couldn't find the ring!'KARL. 'Were you married here, sir?'COLONEL. 'Yes, at the village church.'BILLY. 'So were my father and mother.'COLONEL, as his eyes wander to the garden, 'I remember walking back withmy wife and bringing her in here through the window. She kissed some ofthe furniture.'BILLY. 'I suppose you would like a grander affair, Barbara?'BARBARA. 'No, just the same.'BILLY. 'I hoped you would say that.'BARBARA. 'But, Billy, I'm to have such a dream of a wedding gown.Granny is going with me to London, to choose it'--laying her head on theColonel's shoulder--'if you can do without her for a day, dear.'COLONEL, gallantly, 'I shall go with you, I couldn't trust you andgranny to choose the gown.'KARL. 'You must often be pretty lonely, sir, when we are all out andabout enjoying ourselves.'COLONEL. 'They all say that. But that is the time when I'm not lonely,Karl. It's then I see things most clearly--the past, I suppose. It allcomes crowding back to me--India, the Crimea, India again--and it's soreal, especially the people. They come and talk to me. I seem to seethem; I don't know they haven't been here, Billy, till your granny tellsme afterwards.'BILLY. 'Yes, I know, I wonder where granny is.'BARBARA. 'It isn't often she leaves you for so long, dear.'COLONEL. 'She told me she had to go out, but I forget where. Oh, yes,she has gone down to the village to a wedding.'BILLY. 'A wedding?'BARBARA. 'It's curious how he harps on that.'COLONEL. 'She said to me to listen and I would hear the wedding bells.'BARBARA. 'Not to-day, dear.'BILLY. 'Best not to worry him.'BARBARA. 'But granny says we should try to make things clear to him.'BILLY. 'Was any one with granny when she said she was going to a wedding?'COLONEL, like one begging her to admit it, 'You were there, Barbara.'BARBARA. 'No, dear. He said that to me before. And something about anurse.'COLONEL, obstinately, 'She was there, too.'BILLY. 'Any one else?'COLONEL. 'There was that soldier.'BARBARA. 'A soldier also!'COLONEL. 'Just those three.'BILLY. 'But that makes four. Granny and Barbara and a nurse and asoldier.'COLONEL. 'They were all there; but there were only three.'BILLY. 'Odd.'BARBARA, soothingly, 'Never mind, dear, Granny will make it all right.She is the one for you.'COLONEL. 'She is the one for me.'KARL. 'If there had been a wedding, wouldn't she have taken the Colonelwith her?'BARBARA. 'Of course she would.'KARL. 'You are not too old to have a kind eye for a wedding, sir.'COLONEL, wagging his head, 'Aha, aha! You know, if I had gone, verylikely I should have kissed the bride. Brides look so pretty on theirwedding day. They are often not pretty at other times, but they are allpretty on their wedding day.'KARL. 'You have an eye for a pretty girl still, sir!'COLONEL. 'Yes, I have; yes, I have!'BARBARA. 'I do believe I see it all. Granny has been talking to youabout Billy boy and me, and you haven't been able to wait; you havehurried on the wedding!'BILLY. 'Bravo, Barbara, you've got it.'COLONEL, doubtfully, 'That may be it. Because I am sure you were to bethere, Barbara.'BARBARA. 'Our wedding, Billy!'KARL. 'It doesn't explain those other people, though.'The Colonel moves about in agitation.BARBARA. 'What is it, dear?'COLONEL. 'I can't quite remember, but I think that is why she didn'ttake me. It is your wedding, Barbara, but I don't think Billy boy is tobe there, my love.'BARBARA. 'Not at my wedding!'BILLY. 'Grandfather!'COLONEL. 'There's something sad about it.'BARBARA. 'There can't be anything sad about a wedding, dear. Grannydidn't say it was a sad wedding, did she?'COLONEL. 'She was smiling.'BARBARA. 'Of course she was.'COLONEL. 'But I think that was only to please the nurse.'BARBARA. 'That nurse again! Dear, don't think any more about it. There'sno wedding.'COLONEL, gently, though he wonders why they can go on deceiving him, 'Isthere not?'The village wedding bells begin to ring.The Colonel is triumphant. 'I told you! There is a wedding!'The bells ring on gaily. Billy and Barbara take a step nearer to eachother, but can go no closer. The bells ring on, and the three youngpeople fade from the scene.When they are gone and he is alone, the Colonel still addresses them.'It's Barbara's wedding. Billy boy, why are you not at Barbara'swedding?'Soon the bells stop. He knows that he is alone now, but he does notunderstand it. The sun is shining brightly, but he sits very cold in hischair. He shivers. He is very glad to see his wife coming to himthrough the open window. She is a dear old lady, and is dressedbrightly, as becomes one who has been to a wedding. Her face beams tomatch her gown. She is really quite a happy woman again, for it isseveral years since any deep sorrow struck her; and that is a long time.No one, you know, understands the Colonel as she does, no one can soothehim and bring him out of his imaginings as she can. He hastens to her.He is no longer cold. That is her great reward for all she does for him.'I have come back, John,' she says, smiling tranquilly on him. 'Ithasn't seemed very long, has it?''No, not long, Ellen. Had you a nice walk?'She continues to smile, but she is watching him closely. 'I haven't beenfor a walk. Don't you remember where I told you I was going, John?''Yes, it was to a wedding.'Rather tremulously, 'You haven't forgotten whose wedding, have you?''Tell me, Ellen.' He is no longer troubled. He knows that Ellen willtell him.'I have been seeing Barbara married, John.''Yes, it was Barbara's wedding. They wouldn't--Ellen, why wasn't Ithere?'Like one telling him amusing gossip, 'I thought you might be a littletroubled if you went, John. Sometimes your mind--not often, butsometimes if you are agitated--and then you think you see--people whoaren't here any longer. Oh dear, oh dear, help me with these bonnetstrings.''Yes, I know. I'm all right when you are with me, Ellen. Funny, isn'tit?'She raises her shoulders in a laugh. 'It _is_ funny, John. I ranback to you, John. I was thinking of you all the time--even more thanof Billy boy.'The Colonel is very gay. 'Tell me all about it, Ellen. Did Billy boylose the ring? We always said he would lose the ring.'She looks straight into his eyes. 'You have forgotten again, John.Barbara isn't married to Billy boy.'He draws himself up. 'Not marry Billy! I'll see about that.'She presses him into his chair. 'Sit down, dear, and I'll tell yousomething again. It is nothing to trouble you, because your soldieringis done, John; and greatly done. My dear, there is war again, and ourold land is in it. Such a war as my soldier never knew.'He rises. He is a stern old man. 'A war! That's it, is it? So now Iknow! Why wasn't I told? Why haven't I my marching orders? I'm not tooold yet.''Yes, John, you are too old, and all you can do now is to sit hereand--and take care of me. You knew all about it quite clearly thismorning. We stood together upstairs by the window listening to theaircraft guns.''I remember! I thought it was a thunderstorm, Dering told me he heardnothing.''Dering?''Our gardener, you know.' His voice becomes husky. 'Haven't I beentalking with him, Ellen?''It is a long time since we had a gardener, John.''Is it? So it is! A war! That is why there is no more cricket on thegreen.''They have all gone to the war, John.''That's it; even the little shavers.' He whispers, 'Why isn't Billy boyfighting, Ellen?''Oh, John!''Is Billy boy dead?' She nods. 'Was he killed in action? Tell me, tellme!' She nods again. 'Good for Billy boy. I knew Billy boy was allright. Don't cry, Ellen. I'll take care of you. All's well with Billyboy.''Yes, I know, John.'He hesitates before speaking again. 'Ellen, who is the soldier? He comeshere. He is a captain.''He is a very gallant man, John. It is he who was married to Barbarato-day.'Bitterly, 'She has soon forgotten.'His wife shakes her brave head. 'She hasn't forgotten, dear. And it'snearly three years now since Billy died.''So long! We have a medal he got, haven't we?''No, John; he died before he could win any medals.'The Colonel moves about, 'Karl will be sorry. They were very fond ofeach other, those two boys, Ellen.''Karl fought against us, John. He died in the same engagement. They mayeven have killed each other.''They hadn't known, Ellen.'She with, thin lips, 'I daresay they knew.''Billy boy and Karl!'She tells him some more gossip. 'John, I had Barbara married from herebecause she has no people of her own. I think Billy would have likedit.''That was the thing to do, Ellen. Nice of you. I remember everythingnow. It's Dering she has married. He was once my gardener!''The world is all being re-made, dear. He is worthy of her.'He lets this pass. He has remembered something almost as surprising,'Ellen, is Barbara a nurse?''Yes, John, and one of the staidest and most serene. Who would havethought it of the merry madcap of other days! They are coming here,John, to say good-bye to you. They have only a few days' leave. She isin France, too, you know. She was married in her nurse's uniform.''Was she? She told me to-day that--no, it couldn't have been to-day.''You have been fancying you saw them, I suppose.' She grows tremulousagain. 'You will be nice to them, John, won't you, and wish them luck?They have their trials before them.'He says eagerly, 'Tell me what to do, Ellen.''Don't say anything about Billy boy, John.''No, no, let's pretend.''And I wouldn't talk about the garden, John; just in case he is a littletouchy about that.'The Colonel is beginning to fancy himself as a tactician. 'Not a word!'She knows what is the way to put him on his mettle. 'You see, I'm sureI would make a mess of it, so I'm trusting to you, John.'He is very pleased, 'Leave it all to me, Ellen. I'll be frightfully sly.You just watch me.'She goes to the window and calls to the married couple. Captain Dering,in khaki, is a fine soldierly figure. Barbara, in her Red Gross uniform,is quiet and resourceful. An artful old boy greets them.'Congratulations, Barbara. No, no, none of your handshaking; you don'tget past an old soldier in that way. Excuse me, young man.' He kissesBarbara and looks at his wife to make sure that she is admiring him,'And to you, Captain Dering--you have won a prize.'A gallant gentleman answers, 'I know it; I'll try to show I know it.'The Colonel is perturbed. 'I haven't given Barbara a wedding present,Ellen, I should like----'Barbara breaks in, 'Indeed you have, dear, and a lovely one. You haven'tforgotten?'Granny signs to the Colonel and he immediately says, with remarkablecunning, 'Oh--that! I was just quizzing you, Barbara. I hope you will beas happy, dear, staid Barbara, as if you had married----' He sees thathe has nearly given away the situation. He looks triumphantly at grannyas much as to say, 'Observe me; I'm not going to say a word about him.'Granny comes to his aid. 'Perhaps Captain Dering has some little thingsto do: and you, too, Barbara. They are leaving in an hour, John.'For a moment the Colonel is again in danger. 'If you would like to takeBarbara into the garden, Captain Dering----' He recovers himselfinstantly. 'No, not the garden, you wouldn't know your way about in thegarden.''Wouldn't I, Colonel?' the Captain says, smiling.The answer is quite decisive. 'No, certainly not. I'll show it you someday.'He makes gleeful signs to granny. 'But there is a nice meadow justbeyond the shrubbery. Barbara knows the way; she often went therewith--' He checks himself. Granny signs to them to go, and Barbara,kisses both the Colonel's hands. 'The Captain will be jealous, youknow,' he says, twinkling.'Let me, dear,' says Barbara, arranging his cushions professionally.Granny nods. 'She is much better at it than I am now, John.'The Colonel has one last piece of advice to give. 'I wouldn't godown by the stream, Barbara--not to the pool where the alder is.There's--there's not a good view there, sir; and a boy--a boy I knew,he often--nobody in particular--just a boy who used to come about thehouse--he is not here now--he is on duty. I don't think you should goto the alder pool, Barbara.''We won't go there, dear.' She and her husband go out, and the Colonelscarcely misses them, he is so eager to hear what his wife thinks ofhim.'Did I do all right, Ellen?''Splendidly. I was proud of you.'He exults. 'I put them completely off the scent! They haven't a notion!I can be very sly, you know, at times. Ellen, I think I should like tohave that alder tree cut down. There is no boy now, you see.''I would leave it alone, John. There will be boys again. Shall I read toyou; you like that, don't you?''Yes, read to me--something funny, if you please. About Sam Weller! No,I expect Sam has gone to the wars. Read about Mr. Pickwick. He is veryamusing. I feel sure that if he had tried to catch the bull-trout hewould have fallen in. Just as Barbara did this morning.''Barbara?''She is down at the alder pool. Billy is there with that nice Germanboy. The noise they make, shouting and laughing!'She gets from its shelf the best book for war-time. 'Which bit shall Iread?''About Mr. Pickwick going into the lady's bedroom by mistake.''Yes, dear, though you almost know it by heart. You see, you have begunto laugh already.''You are laughing too, Ellen. I can't help it!'She begins to read; they are both chuckling.A WELL-REMEMBERED VOICEOut of the darkness comes the voice of a woman speaking to her dead son.'But that was against your wish, was it not? Was that against your wish?Would you prefer me not to ask that question?'The room is so dark that we cannot see her. All we know is that she isone of four shapes gathered round a small table. Beyond the darkness isa great ingle-nook, in which is seated on a settle a man of fifty. Himwe can discern fitfully by the light of the fire. It is not sufficientlybright to enable him to read, but an evening paper lies on his knee. Heseems wistful and meek. He is paying no attention to the party round thetable. When he hears their voices it is only as empty sounds.The mother continues. 'Perhaps I am putting the question in the wrongway. Are you not able to tell us any more?'A man's voice breaks in. 'There was a distinct movement that time, butit is so irregular.''I thought so, but please don't talk. Do you want to tell us more? Is itthat you can't hear me distinctly? He seems to want to tell us more, butsomething prevents him.''In any case, Mrs. Don, it is extraordinary. This is the first seance Ihave ever taken part in, but I must believe now.''Of course, Major, these are the simplest manifestations. They are onlythe first step. But if we are to go on, the less we talk the better.Shall we go on? It is not agitating you too much, Laura?'A girl answers, 'There was a moment when I--but I wish I was braver. Ithink it is partly the darkness. I suppose we can't have a littlelight?''Certainly we can, dear. Darkness is quite unnecessary, but I think ithelps one to concentrate.'The Major lights a lamp, and though it casts shadows we see now that theroom is an artist's studio. The silent figure in the ingle-nook is theartist. Mrs. Don is his wife, the two men are Major Armitage and anolder friend, Mr. Rogers. The girl is Laura Bell. These four are sittinground the table, their hands touching: they are endeavouring to communewith one who has 'crossed the gulf.'The Major and Mr. Rogers are but passing shadows in the play, and evennice Laura is only to flit across its few pages for a moment on her wayto happier things. We scarcely notice them in the presence of Mrs. Don,the gracious, the beautiful, the sympathetic, whose magnetic force andcharm are such that we wish to sit at her feet at once. She isintellectual, but with a disarming smile, religious, but so charitable,masterful, and yet loved of all. None is perfect, and there must be aflaw in her somewhere, but to find it would necessitate such a rummageamong her many adornments as there is now no time for. Perhaps we maycome upon it accidentally in the course of the play.She is younger than Mr. Don, who, despite her efforts for many years tocover his deficiencies, is a man of no great account in a householdwhere the bigger personality of his wife swallows him like an Aaron'srod. Mr. Don's deficiencies! She used to try very hard, or fairly hard,to conceal them from Dick; but Dick knew. His mother was his chum. Allthe lovely things which happened in that house in the days when Dick wasalive were between him and her; those two shut the door softly on oldDon, always anxious not to hurt his feelings, and then ran into eachother's arms.In the better light Mr. Don is now able to read his paper if he chooses.If he has forgotten the party at the table, they have equally forgottenhim.MRS. DON. 'You have not gone away, have you? We must be patient. Are youstill there?'ROGERS. 'I think I felt a movement.'MRS. DON. 'Don't talk, please. Are you still there?'The table moves.'Yes! It is your mother who is speaking; do you understand that?'The table moves.'Yes. What shall I ask him now?'ROGERS. 'We leave it to you, Mrs. Don.'MRS. DON. 'Have you any message you want to send us? Yes. Is itimportant? Yes. Are we to spell it out in the usual way? Yes. Is thefirst letter of the first word A? Is it B?'She continues through the alphabet to L, when the table responds.Similarly she finds that the second letter is O.'Is the word _Love_? Yes. But I don't understand that movement. Youare not displeased with us, are you? No. Does the second word begin withA?--with B? Yes.'The second word is spelt out _Bade_ and the third _Me_.'Love Bade Me----If it is a quotation, I believe I know it! Is thefourth word _Welcome_? Yes.'LAURA. 'Love Bade Me Welcome.'MRS. DON. 'That movement again! Don't you want me to go on?'LAURA. 'Let us stop.'MRS. DON. 'Not unless he wishes it. Why are those words so important?Does the message end there? Is any one working against you? Some oneantagonistic? Yes. Not one of ourselves surely? No. Is it any one weknow? Yes. Can I get the name in the usual way? Yes. Is the first letterof this person's name A?--B?----'It proves to be F. One begins to notice a quaint peculiarity of Mrs.Don's. She is so accustomed to homage that she expects a prompt responseeven from the shades.'Is the second letter A?'The table moves.'FA. Fa----?'She is suddenly enlightened.'Is the word Father? Yes.'They all turn and look for the first time at Mr. Don. He has heard, andrises apologetically.MR. DON, distressed, 'I had no intention--Should I go away, Grace?'She answers sweetly without a trace of the annoyance she must surelyfeel.MRS. DON. 'Perhaps you had better, Robert.'ROGERS. 'I suppose it is because he is an unbeliever? He is not openlyantagonistic, is he?'MRS. DON, sadly enough, 'I am afraid he is.' They tend to discuss thecriminal as if he was not present.MAJOR. 'But he must admit that we do get messages.'MRS. DON, reluctantly, 'He says we think we do. He says they would notwant to communicate with us if they had such trivial things to say.'ROGERS. 'But we are only on the threshold, Don. This is just abeginning.'LAURA. 'Didn't you hear, Mr. Don--"Love Bade Me Welcome"?'MR. DON. 'Does that strike you as important, Laura?'LAURA. 'He said it was.'MRS. DON. 'It might be very important to him, though we don't understandwhy.'She speaks gently, but there is an obstinacy in him, despite hismeekness.MR. DON. 'I didn't mean to be antagonistic, Grace. I thought. I wasn'tthinking of it at all.'MRS. DON. 'Not thinking of Dick, Robert? And it was only five monthsago!'MR. DON, who is somehow, without meaning it, always in the wrong,'I'll go.'ROGERS. 'A boy wouldn't turn his father out. Ask him.'MR. DON, forlornly, 'As to that--as to that----'MRS. DON. 'I will ask him if you wish me to, Robert.'MR. DON. 'No, don't.'ROGERS. 'It can't worry you as you are a disbeliever.'MR. DON. 'No, but--I shouldn't like you to think that he sent me away.'ROGERS. 'He won't. Will he, Mrs. Don?'MR. DON, knowing what her silence implies, 'You see, Dick and I were notvery--no quarrel or anything of that sort--but I, I didn't much matterto Dick. I'm too old, perhaps.'MRS. DON, gently, 'I won't ask him, Robert, if you would prefer menot to.'MR. DON. 'I'll go.'MRS. DON. 'I'm afraid it is too late now.' She turns away from earthlythings. 'Do you want me to break off?'The table moves.'Yes. Do you send me your love, Dick? Yes. And to Laura? Yes.' Sheraises her eyes to Don, and hesitates. 'Shall I ask him----?'MR. DON. 'No, no, don't.'ROGERS. 'It would be all right, Don.'MR. DON. 'I don't know.'They leave the table.LAURA, a little agitated, 'May I go to my room, Mrs. Don? I feelI--should like to be alone.'MRS. DON. 'Yes, yes, Laura dear. I shall come in and see you.'Laura bids them good-night and goes. She likes Mr. Don, she strokes hishand when he holds it out to her, but she can't help saying, 'Oh, Mr.Don, how could you?'ROGERS. 'I think we must all want to be alone after such an evening.I shall say good-night, Mrs. Don.'MAJOR. 'Same here. I go your way, Rogers, but you will find me a silentcompanion. One doesn't want to talk ordinary things to-night. Rathernot. Thanks, awfully.'ROGERS. 'Good-night, Don. It's a pity, you know; a bit hard on yourwife.'MR. DON. 'Good-night, Rogers. Good-night, Major.'The husband and wife, left together, have not much to say to each other.He is depressed because he has spoilt things for her. She is not angry.She knows that he can't help being as he is, and that there are finespaces in her mind where his thoughts can never walk with her. But shewould forgive him seventy times seven because he is her husband. She isstanding looking at a case of fishing-rods against the wall. There isa Jock Scott still sticking in one of them. Mr. Don says, as if somehowthey were evidence against him:'Dick's fishing-rods.'She says forgivingly, 'I hope you don't mind my keeping them in thestudio, Robert. They are sacred things to _me_.''That's all right, Grace.''I think I shall go to Laura now.''Yes,' in his inexpressive way.'Poor child!''I'm afraid I hurt her.''Dick wouldn't have liked it--but Dick's gone.' She looks a littlewonderingly at him. After all these years, she can sometimes wondera little still. 'I suppose you will resume your evening paper!'He answers quietly, but with the noble doggedness which is the reasonwhy we write this chapter in his life. 'Why not, Grace?'She considers, for she is so sure that she must know the answer betterthan he. 'I suppose it is just that a son is so much more to a motherthan to a father.''I daresay.'A little gust of passion shakes her. 'How you can read about the warnowadays!'He says firmly to her--he has had to say it a good many times tohimself, 'I'm not going to give in.' But he adds, 'I am so sorry I wasin the way, Grace. I wasn't scouting you, or anything of that sort. It'sjust that I can't believe in it.''Ah, Robert, you would believe if Dick had been to you what he wasto me.''I don't know.''In a sense you may be glad that you don't miss him in the way I do.''Yes, perhaps.''Good-night, Robert.''Good-night, dear.'He is alone now. He stands fingering the fishing-rods tenderly, thenwanders back into the ingle-nook. In the room we could scarcely see him,for it has gone slowly dark there, a grey darkness, as if the lamp,though still burning, was becoming unable to shed light. Through thegreyness we see him very well beyond it in the glow of the fire. He sitson the settle and tries to read his paper. He breaks down. He is apitiful lonely man.In the silence something happens. A well-remembered voice says,'Father.' Mr. Don looks into the greyness from which this voice comes,and he sees his son. We see no one, but we are to understand that, toMr. Don, Dick is standing there in his habit as he lived. He goes to hisboy.'Dick!''I have come to sit with you for a bit, father.'It is the gay, young, careless voice.'It's you, Dick; it's you!''It's me all right, father. I say, don't be startled, or anything of thatkind. We don't like that.''My boy!'Evidently Dick is the taller, for Mr. Don has to look up to him. He putshis hands on the boy's shoulders.'How am I looking, father?''You haven't altered, Dick.''Rather not. It's jolly to see the old studio again!' In a cajolingvoice, 'I say, father, don't fuss. Let us be our ordinary selves, won'tyou?''I'll try, I'll try. You didn't say you had come to sit with _me_,Dick? Not with _me_!''Rather!''But your mother----''It's you I want.''Me?''We can only come to one, you see.''Then why me?''That's the reason.' He is evidently moving about, looking curiously atold acquaintances. 'Hello, here's your old jacket, greasier than ever!''Me? But, Dick, it is as if you had forgotten. It was your mother whowas everything to you. It can't be you if you have forgotten that.I used to feel so out of it; but, of course, you didn't know.''I didn't know it till lately, father; but heaps of things that I didn'tknow once are clear to me now. I didn't know that you were the one whowould miss me most; but I know now.'Though the voice is as boyish as ever, there is a new note in it ofwhich his father is aware. Dick may not have grown much wiser, butwhatever he does know now he seems to know for certain.'_Me_ miss you most? Dick, I try to paint just as before. I go to theclub. Dick, I have been to a dinner-party. I said I wouldn't give in.''We like that.''But, my boy----'Mr. Don's arms have gone out to him again. Dick evidently wriggles awayfrom them. He speaks coaxingly.'I say, father, let's get away from that sort of thing.''That is so like you, Dick! I'll do anything you ask.''Then keep a bright face.''I've tried to.''Good man! I say, put on your old greasy; you are looking so beastlyclean.'The old greasy is the jacket, and Mr. Don obediently gets into it.'Anything you like. No, that's the wrong sleeve. Thanks, Dick.'They are in the ingle-nook now, and the mischievous boy catches hisfather by the shoulders.'Here, let me shove you into your old seat.'Mr. Don is propelled on to the settle.'How's that, umpire!''Dick,' smiling, 'that's just how you used to butt me into it long ago!'Dick is probably standing with his back to the fire, chuckling.'When I was a kid.''With the palette in my hand.''Or sticking to your trousers.''The mess we made of ourselves, Dick.''I sneaked behind the settle and climbed up it.''Till you fell off.''On top of you and the palette.'It is good fun for a father and son; and the crafty boy has succeededin making the father laugh. But soon,'Ah, Dick.'The son frowns. He is not going to stand any nonsense.'Now then, behave! What did I say about that face?'Mr. Don smiles at once, obediently.'That's better. I'll sit here.'We see from his father's face which is smiling with difficulty that Dickhas plopped into the big chair on the other side of the ingle-nook. Hislegs are probably dangling over one of its arms.Rather sharply, 'Got your pipe?''I don't--I don't seem to care to smoke nowadays, Dick.''Rot! Just because I am dead! You that pretend to be plucky! I won'thave it, you know. You get your pipe, and look slippy about it.''Yes, Dick,' the old man says obediently. He fills his pipe from a jaron the mantelshelf. We may be sure that Dick is watching closely to seethat he lights it properly.'Now, then, burn your thumb with the match--you always did, you know.That's the style. You've forgotten to cock your head to the side. Not sobad. That's you. Like it?''It's rather nice, Dick. Dick, you and me by the fire!''Yes, but sit still. How often we might have been like this, father,and weren't.''Ah!''Face. How is Fido?''Never a dog missed her master more.''Oh,' frowning. 'She doesn't want to go and sit on my grave, or any ofthat tosh, does she? As if I were there!''No, no,' hastily; 'she goes ratting, Dick.''Good old Fido!''Dick, here's a good one. We oughtn't to keep a dog at all because weare on rations now; but what do you think Fido ate yesterday?''Let me guess. The joint?''Almost worse than that. She ate all the cook's meat tickets.'They laugh, together, but when Dick says light-heartedly, 'That dog willbe the death of me.' his father shivers. Dick does not notice this; hiseyes have drawn him to the fishing-rods.'Hullo!''Yes, those are your old fishing-rods.''Here's the little hickory! Do you remember, father, how I got theseven-pounder on a burn-trout cast? No, you weren't there. That wasa day. It was really only six and three-quarters. I put a stone inits mouth the second time we weighed it!''You loved fishing, Dick.''Didn't I? Why weren't you oftener with me? I'll tell you a funny thing,When I went a soldiering I used to pray--just standing up, youknow--that I shouldn't lose my right arm, because it would be so awkwardfor casting.' He cogitates as he returns to the ingle-nook. 'Somehow Inever thought I should be killed. Lots of fellows thought that aboutthemselves, but I never did. It was quite a surprise to me.''Oh, Dick!''What's the matter? Oh, I forgot. Face!' He is apparently looking downat his father wonderingly. 'Haven't you got over it yet, father? I gotover it so long ago. I wish you people would understand what a littlething it is.''Tell me,' very humbly; 'tell me, Dick.''All right.' He is in the chair again.'Mind, I can't tell you where I was killed; it's against theregulations.''I know where.'Curiously, 'You got a wire, I suppose?''Yes.''There's always a wire for officers, even for 2nd Lieutenants. It'sjolly decent of them.''Tell me, Dick, about the--the veil. I mean the veil that is drawnbetween the living and the----.''The dead? Funny how you jib at that word.''I suppose the veil is like a mist?''The veil's a rummy thing, father. Yes, like a mist. But when one hasbeen at the Front for a bit, you can't think how thin the veil seems toget; just one layer of it. I suppose it seems thin to you out therebecause one step takes you through it. We sometimes mix up those whohave gone through with those who haven't. I daresay if I were to go backto my old battalion the living chaps would just nod to me.''Dick!''Where's that pipe? Death? Well, to me, before my day came, it was likesome part of the line I had heard a lot about but never been in. I mean,never been in to stay, because, of course, one often popped in and out.''Dick, the day that you----''My day? I don't remember being hit, you know. I don't remember anythingtill the quietness came. When you have been killed it suddenly becomesvery quiet; quieter even than you have ever known it at home. Sundayused to be a pretty quiet day at my tutor's, when Trotter and Iflattened out on the first shady spot up the river; but it is quieterthan that. I am not boring you, am I?''My boy!''When I came to, the veil was so thin that I couldn't see it at all; andmy first thought was, Which side of it have I come out on? The livingones lying on the ground were asking that about themselves, too. Therewe were, all sitting up and asking whether we were alive or dead; andsome were one, and some were the other. Sort of fluke, you know.''I--I--oh, Dick!''As soon as each had found out about himself he wondered how it had gonewith his chums, I halloo'd to Johnny Randall, and he halloo'd back thathe was dead, but that Trotter was living. That's the way of it. A gooddeal of chaff, of course. By that time the veil was there, and gettingthicker, and we lined up on our right sides. Then I could only see theliving ones in shadow and hear their voices from a distance. They sangout to us for a while; but just at first, father, it was rather lonelywhen we couldn't hear their tread any longer. What are you fidgetingabout? You needn't worry; that didn't last long; we were heaps moreinterested in ourselves than in them. You should have heard thegabbling! It was all so frightfully novel, you see; and no one quiteknew what to do next, whether all to start off together, or wait forsome one to come for us. I say, what a lot I'm talking!''What happened, Dick?''Oh!' a proud ring coming into the voice, 'Ockley came for us. He usedto be alive, you know--the Ockley who was keeper of the fives in myfirst half. I once pointed him out to mother. I was jolly glad he wasthe one who came for us. As soon as I saw it was Ockley I knew we shouldbe all right.''Dick, I like that Ockley.''Rather. I wish I could remember something funny to tell you though.There are lots of jokes, but I am such a one for forgetting them.'He laughs boisterously. We may be sure that he flings back his head. Youremember how Dick used to fling back his head when he laughed?--No, youdidn't know him.'Father, do you remember little Wantage who was at my private and cameon to Ridley's house in my third half? His mother was the one you calledEmily.''Emily Wantage's boy.''That's the card. We used to call him Jemima, because he and his motherwere both caught crying when lock-up struck, and she had to clear out.''She was very fond of him, Dick.''Oh, I expect no end. Tell her he's killed.''She knows.''She had got a wire. That isn't the joke, though. You see he got into ahopeless muddle about which side of the veil he had come out on; and hewent off with the other ones, and they wouldn't have him, and he gotlost in the veil, running up and down it, calling to us; and just forthe lark we didn't answer.' He chuckles, 'I expect he has become aghost!' With sudden consideration, 'Best not tell his mother that.'Mr. Don rises, wincing, and Dick also is at once on his feet, full ofcompunction.'Was that shabby of me? Sorry, father. We are all pretty young, youknow, and we can't help having our fun still.''I'm glad you still have your fun,' the father says, once more puttinghis hands on Dick's shoulders. 'Let me look at you again, Dick. There issuch a serenity about you now.''Serenity, that's the word! None of us could remember what the word was.It's a ripping good thing to have. I should be awfully bucked if youwould have it, too.''I'll try.''I say, how my tongue runs on! But, after all, it was my show. Now, youtell me some things.''What about, Dick? The war?''No,' almost in a shout. 'We have a fine for speaking about the war. Andyou know, those fellows we were fighting--I forget who they were?''The Germans.''Oh yes. Some of them were on the same side of the veil with us, andthey were rather decent; so we chummed up in the end and Ockley took usall away together. They were jolly lucky in getting Ockley. There I goagain! Come on, it's your turn. Has the bathroom tap been mended yet?''I'm afraid it is--just tied up with that string still, Dick. It worksall right.''It only needs two screw-nails, you know.''I'll see to it.''Do you know whether any one at my tutors got his fives choice thishalf?''I'm sorry, Dick, but----''Or who is the captain of the boats?''No, I----''Whatever have you been doing?' He is moving about the room. 'Hullo,here's mother's work-box! Is mother all right?''Very sad about you, Dick.''Oh, I say, that isn't fair. Why doesn't she cheer up?''It isn't so easy, my boy.''It's pretty hard lines on me, you know.''How is that?''If you are sad, I have to be sad. That's how we have got to work itoff. You can't think how we want to be bright.''I'll always remember that, and I'll tell your mother. Ah, but she won'tbelieve me, Dick; you will have to tell her yourself.''I can't do that, father. I can only come to one.''She should have been the one; she loved you best, Dick.''Oh, I don't know. Do you ever,' with a slight hesitation, 'see Lauranow?''She is staying with us at present.''Is she? I think I should like to see her.''If Laura were to see you----''Oh, she wouldn't see me. She is not dressed in black, is she?''No, in white.''Good girl! I suppose mother is in black?''Surely, Dick.''It's too bad, you know.''You weren't exactly--engaged to Laura, were you, Dick?' A bold questionfrom a father, but the circumstances were unusual. Apologetically, 'Inever rightly knew.''No!' Dick has flung back his head again. Confidentially, 'Father, Isometimes thought of it, but it rather scared me! I expect that is abouthow it was with her, too.''She is very broken about you now.'Irritated, 'Oh, hang!''Would you like her to forget you, Dick?''Rather not. But she might help a fellow a bit. Hullo!'What calls forth this exclamation, is the little table at which theseance had taken place. The four chairs are still standing round it, asif they were guarding something.'Here's something new, father; this table.''Yes, It is usually in the drawing-room.''Of course. I remember.'Mr. Don sets his teeth. 'Does that table suggest anything to you, Dick?''To me? Let me think. Yes, I used to play backgammon on it. What is itdoing here?''Your mother brought it in.''To play games on? Mother!''I don't--know that it was a game, Dick.''But to play anything! I'm precious glad she can do that. Was Lauraplaying with her?''She was helping her.''Good for Laura.' He is looking at some slips of paper on the table.'Are those pieces of paper used in the game? There is writing on them:"The first letter is H--the second letter is A--the third letter is R."What does it mean?''Does it convey no meaning to you, Dick?''To me? No; why should it?'Mr. Don is enjoying no triumph. 'Let us go back to the fire, my boy.'Dick follows him into the ingle-nook. 'But, why should it convey ameaning to me? I was never much of a hand at indoor games.' Brightly,'I bet you Ockley would be good at it.' After a joyous ramble, 'Ockley'snickname still sticks to him!''I don't think I know it.''He was a frightful swell, you know. Keeper of the field, and playedagainst Harrow the same year. I suppose it did go just a little to hishead.'They are back in their old seats, and Mr. Don leans forward in gleefulanticipation. Probably Dick is leaning forward in the same way, and thisold father is merely copying him.'What did you nickname him, Dick?''It was his fags that did it!''I should like to know it. I say, do tell me, Dick.''He is pretty touchy about it now, you know.''I won't tell any one. Come on, Dick.''His fags called him K.C.M.G.''Meaning, meaning, Dick?''Meaning "Kindly Call Me God!"'Mr. Don flings back his head; so we know what Dick is doing. They area hilarious pair, perhaps too noisy, for suddenly Mr. Don looks at thedoor.'I think I heard some one, Dick!''Perhaps it's mother!''She may,' nervously, 'have heard the row.'Dick's eyes must be twinkling. 'I say, father, you'll catch it!''I can't believe, Dick,' gazing wistfully into the chair, 'that shewon't see you.'It is a sadder voice than his own for the moment that answers, 'Only onemay see me.''You will speak to her, Dick. Let her hear your voice.''Only one may hear me. I could make her the one; but it would mean yourlosing me.''I can't give you up, Dick.'Mrs. Don comes in, as beautiful as ever, but a little aggrieved.'I called to you, Robert.''Yes, I thought--I was just going to----'He has come from the ingle-nook to meet her. He looks from her to Dick,whom he sees so clearly, standing now by the fire. An awe falls upon Mr.Don. He says her name, meaning, 'See, Grace, who is with us.'Her eyes follow his, but she sees nothing, not even two armsoutstretched to her. 'What is it, Robert? What is the matter?'She does not hear a voice say, 'Mother!''I heard you laughing, Robert; what on earth at?'The father cannot speak.'Now you're in a hole, father!' says a mischievous, voice.'Can I not be told, Robert?''Something in the paper,' the voice whispers.Mr. Don lifts the paper feebly, and his wife understands. 'Oh, anewspaper joke! Please, I don't want to hear it.''Was it my laughing that brought you back, Grace?''No, that would only have made me shut my door. If Dick thought youcould laugh!' She goes to the little table. 'I came back for theseslips of paper.' She lifts them and presses them to her breast. 'Theseprecious slips of paper!'Dick was always a curious boy, and forgetting that she cannot hear him,he blurts out, 'How do you mean, mother? Why are they precious?'Mr. Don forgets also and looks to her for an answer.'What is it, Robert?''Didn't you--hear anything, Grace?''No. Perhaps Laura was calling; I left her on the stair.''I wish,' Mr. Don is fighting for Dick now, 'I wish Laura would comeback and say good-night to me.''I daresay she will.''And,' valiantly, 'if she could be--rather brighter, Grace.''Robert!''I think Dick would like it.'Her fine eyes reproach him mutely, but she says, ever forgiving, 'Isthat how you look at it, Robert? Very well, laugh your fill--if you can.But if Dick were to appear before me to-night----'In his distress Mr. Don cries aloud to the figure by the fire, 'Dick, ifyou can appear to your mother, do it.'There is a pause in which anything may happen, but nothing happens.Yes, something happened: Dick has stuck to his father.'Really, Robert!' Mrs. Don says, and, without a word of reproach, shegoes away. Evidently Dick comes to his father, who has sank into a chair,and puts a loving hand on him. Mr. Don clasps it without looking up.'Father, that was top-hole of you! Poor mother, I should have liked tohug her; but I can't.''You should have gone to her, Dick; you shouldn't have minded me.'The wiser boy says, 'Mother's a darling, but she doesn't need me as muchas you do.''I don't know.''That's all right. I'm glad she's so keen about that game, though.'He has returned to the ingle-nook when Laura comes in, eager to makeamends to Dick's father if she hurt him when she went out.Softly, 'I have come to say good-night, Mr. Don.''It's nice of you, Laura,' taking both her hands.Dick speaks. 'I want her to come nearer to the fire; I can't see hervery well there.'For a moment Mr. Don is caught out again; but Laura has heard nothing.He becomes quite cunning in Dick's interests.'Your hands are cold, Laura; go over to the fire. I want to look atyou.'She sits on the hearthstone by Dick's feet.Shyly, 'Am I all right?'It is Dick who answers. 'You're awfully pretty, Laura. You are evenprettier than I thought. I remember I used to think, she can't be quiteas pretty as I think her; and then when you came you were just a littleprettier.'She has been warming her hands. 'Why don't you say anything?' she asksMr. Don.'I was thinking of you and Dick, Laura.''What a pretty soul she has, father,' says the boy; 'I can see rightdown into it now.''If Dick had lived, Laura, do you think that you and he--?'With shining eyes, 'I think--if he had wanted it very much.''I expect he would, my dear.'There is an odd candour about Dick's contribution. 'I think so, too, butI never was quite sure.' They are a very young pair.Laura is trembling a little. 'Mr. Don--''Yes, Laura?''I think there is something wicked about me. I sometimes feel quitelight-hearted--though Dick has gone.''Perhaps, nowadays, the fruit trees have that sort of shame when theyblossom, Laura; but they can't help doing it. I hope you are yet to bea happy woman, a happy wife.''It seems so heartless to Dick.''Not a bit; it's what I should like,' Dick says.'It's what he would like, Laura.''Do you remember, Laura,' Dick goes on, 'I kissed you once. It was undera lilac in the Loudon Woods. I knew at the time that you were angry, andI should have apologised. I'm sorry, Laura.'His sweetheart has risen, tasting something bitter-sweet. 'What is it,Laura?' Mr. Don asks.'Somehow--I don't know how--but, for a moment I seemed to feel the smellof lilac. Dick was once--nice to me under a lilac. Oh, Mr. Don--' Shegoes to him like a child, and he soothes and pets her.'There, there! That will be all right, quite all right.' He takes her tothe door. 'Good-night, my dear.''Good-night, Mr. Don.''Good-bye, Laura,' says the third voice.Mr. Don is looking so glum that the moment they are alone Dick has tocry warningly, 'Face!' He is probably looking glum himself, for he sayscandidly, 'Pretty awful things, these partings. Father, don't feel hurtthough I dodge the good-bye business when I leave you.''That's so like you, Dick!''I'll have to go soon.''Oh, Dick! Can't you--''There's something I want not to miss, you see.''I'm glad of that.''I'm not going yet; but I mean that when I do I'll just slip away.''What I am afraid of is that you won't come back.''I will--honest Injun--if you keep bright.''But, if I do that, Dick, you might think I wasn't missing you so much.''We know better than that. You see, if you're bright, I'll get a goodmark for it.''I'll be bright.'Dick pops him into the settle again.'Remember your pipe.''Yes, Dick.''Do you still go to that swimming-bath, and do your dumb-bellexercises?''No, I--''You must.''All right, Dick, I will.''And I want you to be smarter next time. Your hair's awful.''I'll get it cut, Dick.''Are you hard at work over your picture of those three Graces?''No. I put that away. I'm just doing little things nowadays. I can't--''Look here, sonny, you've got to go on with it. You don't seem to knowhow interested I am in your future.''Very well, Dick; I'll bring it out again.'Mr. Don hesitates.'Dick, there is something I have wanted to ask you all the time.'Some fear seems to come into the boy's voice. 'Don't ask it, father.''I shall go on worrying about it if I don't--but just as you like,Dick.''Go ahead, father; ask me.''It is this. Would you rather be--here--than there?'After a pause the boy says, 'Not always.''What is the great difference, Dick?''Well, down here one knows he has risks to run.''And you miss that?''It must be rather jolly.''Did you know that was what I was to ask?''Yes. But, remember, I'm young at it.''And your gaiety, Dick; is it all real, or only put on to help me?''It's--it's half and half, father.''Face!' he cries, next moment. Then cajolingly, 'Father, K.C.M.G.!''When will you come again, Dick?''There's no saying. One can't always get through. They keep changing thepassword.' His voice grows troubled. 'It's awfully difficult to get thepassword.''What was it to-night?''Love Bade Me Welcome.'Mr. Don rises; he stares at his son.'How did you get it, Dick?''I'm not sure.' Dick seems to go closer to his father, as if forprotection. 'There are lots of things I don't understand yet.''There are things I don't understand either. Dick, did you ever try tosend messages--from there---to us?''Me? No.''Or get messages from us?''No. How could we?''Is there anything in it?'Mr. Don is not speaking to his son. He goes to the little table andlooks long at it. Has it taken on a sinister aspect? Those chairs, arethey guarding a secret?'Dick, this table--your mother--how could they----'He turns, to find that Dick has gone.'Dick! My boy! Dick!'The well-remembered voice leaves a message behind it.'Be bright, father.'Mr. Don sits down by the fire to think it all out.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Echoes of the War, by J. M. Barrie*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ECHOES OF THE WAR ******** This file should be named 9617.txt or 9617.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/9/6/1/9617/Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Tiffany Vergon, David Garciaand the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's L'Illustration, No. 3696, 27 D?cembre 1913, by VariousThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: L'Illustration, No. 3696, 27 D?cembre 1913Author: VariousRelease Date: August 23, 2010 [EBook #33518]Language: FrenchCharacter set encoding: ISO-8859-1*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK L'ILLLUSTRATION, NO. 3696, 27 D?CEMBRE 1913 ***Produced by Jeroen Hellingman and R?nald L?vesqueL'Illustration, No. 3696, 27 D?cembre 1913[Illustration: Bande dessin?e: LA REVUE COMIQUE par Henriot.][Illustration: Frontispice][Illustration: LE DISCOURS DE M. ARISTIDE BRIAND ASAINT-ETIENNE _D'apr?s un instantan?.--Voir l'article, page 538._]L'?ch?ance du 31 d?cembre ?tant une des plus importantes de l'ann?e,nous insistons de nouveau tr?s vivement aupr?s de ceux de nos lecteursdont l'abonnement expire ? cette date, et qui ne l'ont pas encorerenouvel?, pour qu'ils veuillent bien nous adresser, dans le plus brefd?lai, leur souscription pour 1914; ils ?viteront ainsi tout retard dansla r?ception des prochains num?ros.SUPPL?MENTS DE TH??TRE_Une grande solennit? musicale se pr?pare pour le Ier janvier 1914:Parsifal, le chef-d'oeuvre de Richard Wagner, que Bayreuth s'?taitjusqu'? pr?sent jalousement r?serv?, sera repr?sent?, dans notre langue,en m?me temps ? Paris et ? Bruxelles, ? l'Op?ra et ? la Monnaie.__Nous croyons que tous nos lecteurs--et non pas seulement ceux quiassisteront aux premi?res repr?sentations fran?aises de Parsifal--noussauront gr? de leur offrir, dans le prochain num?ro de_ La PetiteIllustration, _une traduction in?dite, ? la fois respectueuse et claire,du po?me de Wagner, plus c?l?bre que connu du grand public.__A la liste des pi?ces nouvelles dont nous avons d?j? annonc? lapublication, nous sommes heureux d'ajouter_ La Belle Aventure _de MM.Gaston de Caillavet, Robert de Flers et Etienne Rey, qui vientd'obtenir au Vaudeville un immense succ?s._COURRIER DE PARISUNE OEUVRE V?CUEM. Jules Claretie a commenc? la semaine derni?re la publication de ses_M?moires_. Voil? bien longtemps, heureusement pour lui--et pournous--qu'on les attendait, avec une impatience qui n'?tait adoucie etentretenue, au cours des ann?es, que par cette id?e, si savoureuse etremontante, qu'? chaque incident agr?able ou difficile de la longue etbelle carri?re de l'administrateur de la Com?die-Fran?aise, ilss'augmentaient, s'enrichissaient, se paraient de mille anecdotesin?dites, de traits piquants rajout?s, d'aper?us nouveaux. Ainsi, nonseulement on se r?jouissait des joies si nombreuses et des honneurs sim?rit?s qui advenaient ? M. Claretie, mais par une esp?ce d'?go?sme,h?las! tr?s humain et irraisonn?, on n'?tait pas trop f?ch? non plusquand un petit nuage obscurcissait--pour quelques heures--la s?r?nit? deson azur, parce qu'on savait d'abord qu'il avait l'habitude et lesmoyens de la victoire, et ensuite que l'on se disait: ?Oh! Oh! Voil? dubon sur la planche, pour plus tard, quand ils seront publi?s!? Donc,plus la date de leur mise au jour fuyait, se reculait, plus nous en?tions, d'une certaine fa?on, assez contents tout de m?me puisque,malgr? l'?preuve impos?e, nous savions tous que nous n'y perdrions pas,que nous aurions double plaisir, double profit. Ce moment est enfinvenu. Aujourd'hui les M?moires paraissent.On peut affirmer ? l'avance et ? coup s?r qu'ils seront ce qu'on atoujours esp?r? de leur auteur et qu'ils auront un succ?s consid?rable.Nul n'?tait dou?, plus que lui, pour les ?crire, avec la conscience etla certitude qu'en le faisant il accomplissait une mission, ? laquelleil n'avait pas le droit de se d?rober. Il semble, au premier instant,que rien ne soit plus facile que de mettre en h?te chaque soir sur lepapier ce qu'on a vu dans la journ?e, ou qui vous a ?t? cont?... Pourbeaucoup de gens il suffira de se livrer assid?ment ? ce pensumquotidien pendant des mois et des ann?es... afin de pouvoir d?clarer,quand il y aura la mati?re de huit ? dix volumes: ?Voil? des M?moiresachev?s, et qui ne m'ont co?t? aucune peine, qui ont ?t? faits pourainsi dire sans s'en apercevoir!? Eh bien, ils se trompent. Si lesM?moires ont ?t? ainsi abattus, copi?s au galop, m?me sur la vie,align?s ? la six-quatre-deux et b?cl?s. selon l'expression courante:_sans s'en apercevoir_,... soyez tranquilles, quand ils para?tront, _ons'en apercevra_. Ils pourront contenir des anecdotes, des mots, desr?cits, une distraction intermittente, mais ils ne formeront pas cetout, homog?ne et harmonieux, que doivent constituer des M?moires debonne souche, des M?moires ?compos?s?, pr?sentant l'image exacte de lapersonne qui les a ?crits et celle du temps dans lequel elle a pens? ets'est promen?e. Les M?moires sont succulents, instructifs et f?conds,quand ils apportent quelque chose de plus que ce qu'ils relatent:entendez par l? une explication, une morale, un enseignement extraitsdes r?alit?s. Il y faut d'ailleurs des quantit?s de dons.En premier, celui de la curiosit?, de la curiosit? pouss?e ? l'extr?me,jamais lasse, jamais assouvie. On peut dire que la caract?ristique del'esprit et du talent de M. Claretie, c'est la curiosit?. Il a ?t? et ilest encore curieux de tout, comme un enfant, comme un jeune homme, commeun bibelotier, comme un reporter, comme un diplomate, comme un badaud,comme une femme, comme un collectionneur, comme un m?decin, comme tousles curieux r?unis et mis bout ? bout. Il est presque aussi curieux dansce si?cle que le fut ? l'avant-dernier La Condamine, qui passait ? justetitre pour l'homme le plus curieux de France. M. Claretie a voulu, sinontout conna?tre parce qu'il ?tait de bonne heure trop renseign? d?j? pourne pas se rendre compte que cela ?tait impossible, du moins toutregarder, pour s'en donner une notion et pouvoir la transmettre, oul'essayer. Ainsi s'explique-t-on qu'il ait abord? avec une souplesse,une l?g?ret? et une activit? d?vorantes tant de genres diff?rents, enn?gligeant dans une sorte de bon sens instinctif de se fixer et des'encha?ner ? aucun. Il ?tait n? pour fl?ner rapidement aux magasins,aux casiers, aux ?talages, ? toutes les boutiques de la vie, et il nes'est arr?t? plus longuement qu'? la plus grande, la plus belle, la plusamusante et la plus fameuse de toutes qui ?tait un th??tre... un th??tred'?tat. Cette curiosit?, charmante, juv?nile, fuyante, saccad?e,d?r?gl?e, passionn?e... j'ai toujours pens? pour ma part qu'elle avait?t? ?toute la vie? de M. Claretie, qu'il lui devait ses joies les plusclaires, les plus ?veill?es, et aussi les petits ennuis s?rieux qu'ileut parfois ? traverser. C'est elle qui fut la cause de tout. Il a dixfois, cent fois plus de finesse et d'adresse, et de philosophie aussi,qu'il n'en faut pour ?viter avec ma?trise le moindre accroc, mais, enpr?sence de la difficult?, aussit?t il s'excite, la curiosit?intervient, pr?cieuse et terrible f?e, et pouss? par elle il veut voir ?tout prix, _voir ce qui arrivera_... et bien entendu ce qui arriveradans le cas le plus aigu, alors il ne se conna?t plus... et il entrer?solument dans l'inconnu qui le tente... Eh bien... il ne faut pascependant qu'il le regrette aujourd'hui, pas plus que nous ne regrettonsnous-m?mes qu'il ait toujours c?d?, m?me ? ses risques et ? ses d?pens,aux impulsions dangereuses de cette curiosit? ? laquelle il ?taitredevable de trop de d?lices pour oser la guider, la retenir, ou lacontrecarrer. Sans elle en effet nous n'aurions pas eu les M?moires enquestion et c'e?t ?t? grand dommage. Que vont-ils ?tre? Que seront-ils?Voil? ce que plus d'un s'est demand?. La r?ponse n'est pas difficile.Ils seront sur le ton simple et familier des articles, nourris dedocuments, que l'auteur de la _Vie ? Paris_ a trouv? le moyen, dans uneexistence priv?e de loisirs apparents, d'?crire au _Temps_, avec uncontinuel succ?s, depuis de nombreuses ann?es. C'est dire que M.Claretie, qui en a tant vu et tant fait voir, nous contera, dans sonaimable style, tous les ?v?nements auxquels il a ?t? de pr?s ou de loinm?l?, qu'il nous retracera en quelque sorte, forc?ment, l'histoirelitt?raire, dramatique--et m?me ?? et l? politique--de ces trentederni?res ann?es, et cela, vu de la coulisse, et sans pose aucune nipr?tention, mais ? petits coups, en petits morceaux d?tach?s, rappelantce qu'est sa conversation abondante, int?ressante, bris?e, pleine decourtoises h?sitations, de flottements, et de r?ticences polies qui enconstituent l'ind?cision, le charme et l'originalit?. Il semble en cesmoments s'?couter lui-m?me au dedans et prendre, avant de l'exprimer etde la jouer, sa pens?e ?au souffleur?. Il n'y a pas de causeurs plusagr?ables, plus s?rs d'eux et plus r?solus, sous les dehors de lamodestie et de la timidit?.Et maintenant, ces _M?moires_ seront-ils combatifs, r?v?lateurs,malicieux? L'administrateur d'hier rappellera-t-il, ressortira-t-il,l'une apr?s l'autre, les circonstances m?morables dans lesquelles,depuis vingt-huit ans, il eut ? prendre tel parti, telle d?cision, ?faire telle promesse, ? la tenir, ? en ?tre emp?ch?? Cherchera-t-il ? sejustifier de certains griefs, fond?s ou non? Dira-t-il _tout_? ou cequ'il croit ?tre tout? Sera-t-il amer? vindicatif? ou apais?, serein?Voudra-t-il prouver? Plaidera-t-il? Montrera-t-il un homme ?nouveau?, jeveux dire celui qu'on le sait incapable d'?tre: un homme amer, aigri,rancunier, m?chant? Pas le moins du monde. Et c'est en cela encore queM. Claretie, qui a si souvent ?tonn?, dans tous les sens, sescontemporains pourtant durs ? surprendre, les ?tonnera encore plus parla publication de ses _M?moires_. Il les trompera justement au chapitredes repr?sailles, auxquelles on suppose, bien ? tort, qu'il a song? avecamour. On le conna?t mal. Il ne fut jamais, dans ses crises les plusvives avec les com?diens ou les auteurs, qu'un homme irrit? de se voirpartag? entre des int?r?ts ?gaux et divers et agac? avec des petitesfureurs de ne pouvoir tout concilier, donner raison ? la fois aux deuxpartis, satisfaire tout ce qu'il aurait tant voulu ne pas m?contenter:l'auteur, l'ami, la Maison, le com?dien, le Comit?, le ministre... etlui-m?me... Mais toutes ces secousses n'avaient jamais qu'une origine etune qualit? professionnelles. Le fonds solide des sentiments n'?tait pasatteint.Va-t-on se figurer, apr?s cela, que M. Claretie fuira dans le r?cit desa vie les instants d?licats et ?pineux? qu'il voudra escamoter lessouvenirs br?lants? Non plus! Et il aura bien raison. Personne ne s'estjamais imagin? qu'il renoncerait au sourire, ? la pointe, ? l'humeurnarquoise, au sel de Paris. Nous lui demandons au contraire de garderjusqu'? la fin, jusqu'? la derni?re ligne de ses _M?moires_, les dons define pol?mique et d'esprit qui sont les siens. Qu'il ne les retiennepas. Ils font partie de sa plume, de cette plume toujours en marche etqui a tant ?crit, qu'il aime par-dessus tout et qu'il a, j'en suis s?r,une all?gresse de libre ?crivain ? reprendre aujourd'hui, sans se plusg?ner en rien, dans le calme, un peu f?brile encore, d'une belleretraite, au sommet d'une carri?re dont il peut, non sans orgueil,consid?rer en se retournant l'unique et long parcours...HENRI LAVEDAN.[Illustration: M. JULES CLARETIE qui vient de mourir, le 23 d?cembre,encore administrateur de la Com?die-Fran?aise, et au moment o? ilvenait de commencer, dans le _Journal_, la publication de ses_M?moires.--Photographie prise dans la Galerie des Bustes duTh??tre-Fran?ais_.]_La vie a d'?tranges hasards. Au moment o?, pr?s d'abandonnerl'administration de la Com?die-Fran?aise, M. Jules Claretie commen?aitdans le Journal la publication de ses M?moires, notre ?minentcollaborateur M. Henri Lavedan avait eu la pens?e de lui consacrer iciun article tout amical et charmant, que nous avions illustr? d'une touter?cente, et maintenant bien ?mouvante photographie. Le fun?bre ?v?nementqui, mardi soir, a surpris Paris, donne, h?las! ? cette chronique unsurcro?t d'actualit? que n'avait pu pr?voir son auteur._Quand nous parvint la nouvelle de la fin soudaine de M. Claretie, lesderni?res pages de ce num?ro, qu'il fallait achever avant les f?tes deNo?l, descendaient sous presse. On imprimait ?le Courrier de Paris?. Noslecteurs ont donc, tout vif, ? d?faut d'une notice n?crologique que nousne pouvons songer ? improviser ? la h?te, l'hommage sinc?re rendu par M.Henri Lavedan ? son coll?gue de l'Acad?mie fran?aise, ? un confr?requ'il ne s'attendait pas ? voir si brusquement dispara?tre. Ils ytrouveront tous les ?l?ments d'un portrait finement vu, ?l?gammentcamp?. Et les plus anciens se rappelleront peut-?tre--non sans quelquem?lancolie, car c'est bien loin d?j?--que des ann?es et des ann?es, ? laplace o? ils lisent aujourd'hui cet article, celui dont on ?voque labienveillante physionomie les entretint lui-m?me, ? la semaine lasemaine, d'une plume alerte et souple, des mille et un ?v?nements,grands ou petits, de la vie de Paris et d'ailleurs: le Bastignac de lavieille _Illustration_, c'?tait M. Jules Claretie.?LA BELLE AVENTURE?[Illustration: Une grand'm?re octog?naire personnifi?e, au Vaudeville,par une artiste qui a l'?ge du r?le: Mme Daynes-Grassot; ? son c?t?,Mlle Madeleine L?ly.]L'un des attraits de cette pi?ce, qui en a tant d'autres et que sestrois auteurs, MM. de Caillavet, Robert de Fiers et Etienne Rey ontpar?e de tout ce que la gr?ce la plus tendre, l'esprit le plus brillant,le talent le plus s?r peuvent produire de mieux achev?, est que l'un despersonnages est une grand'm?re--de soixante-quinze ans, avaient d'abordindiqu? les auteurs--de quatre-vingt-un ans, rectifi?rent-ils, sur lademande de leur interpr?te, Mme Daynes-Grassot, qui avait la coquetteriede vouloir porter en ce r?le son ?ge r?el... Il n'?tait pas inutile desouligner ce d?tail pour tous ceux, innombrables, qui iront applaudir la_Belle Aventure_ au Vaudeville et qui ne l'auraient point soup?onn? ?voir la souriante vivacit? de cette petite vieille en robe de 1851--robequ'elle porta ? cette ?poque!--rajeunie ? la mode de 1864, presquetoujours en sc?ne pendant le deuxi?me et le troisi?me acte et qui metdans son jeu toute l'adresse experte et la gr?ce infinie avec laquelleles auteurs ont conduit leurs sc?nes et leur dialogue pour faireapplaudir une situation dont on ne s'aper?oit pas qu'elle est un peurisqu?e.Il n'est, au premier acte, pas un spectateur qui ne souhaite que lajeune mari?e s'?vade, f?t-ce en sa robe blanche, de l'union sans amour ?laquelle on l'a pouss?e et parte, avec celui que son coeur a ?lu, versla belle aventure; et, au second acte, si la vieille grand-m?re,recevant les jeunes gens qu'elle croit ?tre d?j?, l'un comme l'autre,ses petits-enfants, b?nit leur amour, n'est-ce pas la faute, uniquement,des circonstances, n'est-elle pas tromp?e en toute bonne foi,--si bienqu'au troisi?me acte, alors qu'elle d?couvre l'involontaire supercherieen m?me temps qu'elle apprend que tout va ?tre r?par?, elle ne peutgarder longtemps rancune ? sa petite-fille... On a uni, dans lesenthousiastes applaudissements adress?s aux auteurs et ? cette alertedoyenne de nos com?diennes, les autres interpr?tes au premier rangdesquels Mlle Madeleine L?ly, MM. Victor Boucher et Capellani.[Illustration: M. Albert Besnard. M. di San Giuliano. M. Credaro. M.Barr?re. M. Vicini. M. Casaglia. M. Corrado Ricci. Au minist?re del'Instruction publique ? Rome: la c?r?monie de la remise de la Joconde ?l'ambassadeur de France.--_Phot. Robert Vaucher_.]LA ?JOCONDE? A ROME_Notre correspondant de Rome nous envoie ces int?ressants d?tails sur lac?r?monie de la restitution ? la France de la pr?cieuse peinture deL?onard de Vinci:_Rome, 21 d?cembre 1913.Florence a vu partir hier sa noble h?tesse. Apr?s un court s?jour dansla jolie ville toscane, Monna Lisa a ?t? de nouveau mise entre deuxmorceaux de velours rouge, puis elle a pris le chemin de Rome.Ce n'?tait plus en contrebande qu'elle voyageait, mais bien comme unereine. Pour remplacer le coffre de bois blanc de Perugia on avaitconfectionn? pour elle une ravissante caissette de noyer, biencapitonn?e, o? elle ne risquait pas de s'ab?mer. Monna Lisa avait sagarde d'honneur, compos?e de M. Corrado Ricci, directeur g?n?ral desBeaux-Arts, de M. Poggi, directeur de la Galerie des Offices, et deplusieurs inspecteurs de police. Tout le long du trajet, le convoi re?utles honneurs qu'on prodigue ? un train royal. Des carabiniers ? toutesles stations et, dans le train, des agents en bourgeois veillaient ? las?curit? de la belle voyageuse.A l'arriv?e ? Rome, hier, M. Casaglia, chef de cabinet du ministre del'Instruction publique, attendait ? la gare pour recevoir officiellementle pr?cieux colis que portait M. Ricci lui-m?me. En passant ? l'octroi,un douanier voulut ouvrir la caisse. ?--Cela ne paie pas de droits?, luir?pondit-on. ?--C'est un objet sans valeur!? s'?cria un journaliste.La foule, apprenant l'?v?nement, se pressait ? la sortie. De tous c?t?s,l'on criait: ?--Qui est arriv??--Monna Lisa!? Le public restait boucheb?e, quand il s'apercevait que tous ces honneurs s'adressaient ? unsimple coffret de noyer.L'automobile portant le tableau et ses chevaliers servants r?ussit nonsans peine ? fendre la foule et arriva au minist?re de l'Instructionpublique. L?, en pr?sence du ministre, M. Credaro, la _Joconde_ futsortie de son ?crin, replac?e dans le cadre qu'elle avait ? Florence etexpos?e dans l'antichambre du ministre, dont la fen?tre donne sur laplace de la Minerve.Tous les employ?s du minist?re, en redingote, se pressaient pour voir letableau, lorsque le bruit courut que le roi allait venir ? son tourrendre visite ? la fille divine du Vinci. Bient?t, le salon d'honneurest ?vacu? et, accueilli par des applaudissements chaleureux, S. M.Victor-Emmanuel III offre son hommage admiratif au tableau du grandma?tre. Le roi, qui est un ami des arts, a d?j? vu plusieurs fois laJoconde au Louvre et il exprime ? MM. Ricci et Poggi le plaisir qu'il a? contempler de nouveau ce chef-d'oeuvre. Il f?licite M. Credaro et sescollaborateurs pour le z?le qu'ils ont d?ploy?.Apr?s le d?part du roi, c'est un long d?fil? de d?put?s, de s?nateurs,de hautes personnalit?s qui viennent contempler le tableau tant vant?.Ce matin, jusqu'? 10 heures, les employ?s des diff?rents minist?reseurent ? leur tour le privil?ge de venir jeter un rapide coup d'oeildans la salle o? se trouvait la _Joconde_, encadr?e d'huissiersgalonn?s. Puis les portes furent ferm?es. Seuls, quelques privil?gi?sallaient ?tre admis ? assister ? la c?r?monie de la remise du tableau ?l'ambassadeur de France, M. Camille Barr?re.M. Leprieur, conservateur du mus?e du Louvre, arrive avec M. CorradoRicci. J'ai le plaisir de lui pr?senter M. Poggi, le directeur de laGalerie des Offices, ? qui il exprime le plaisir qu'il eut en apprenantla d?couverte de la _Joconde_, ?la vraie, ajoute-t-il, puisqu'il n'y aplus de doute possible?.M. Leprieur, en effet, a proc?d? avant la remise du tableau ? un examenminutieux de la Joconde ? un point de vue tr?s prosa?que mais dont ler?sultat est des plus int?ressants. Il prit force mesures, v?rifia denombreux signes particuliers qu'il avait not?s dans l'oeuvre de L?onardde Vinci, et toutes ses constatations co?ncid?rent exactement aveccelles qui avaient ?t? faites au Louvre. Il existe d'ailleurs un dossiercachet?, d?pos? chez un notaire parisien, qui contient toutes lesannotations faites sur les particularit?s du tableau. D?s que Monna Lisaaura r?int?gr? le mus?e, on ouvrira ce dossier et l'on proc?dera ? unederni?re v?rification qui aura pour cons?quence, c'est bien certain, dedissiper les doutes des sceptiques les plus endurcis.[Illustration: Illustration: La _Joconde_ rendue ? la France va ?treemport?e au palais Farn?se.-_Phot. Ch. Abeniacar_.]La _Joconde_ a de nouveau ?t? sortie de son cadre, dans le grand salond'honneur. M. Ricci la tient debout sur la table, autour de laquelle segroupent MM. Barr?re, ambassadeur de France, di San Giuliano, ministredes Affaires ?trang?res; Credaro, ministre de l'Instruction publique;Vicini, sous-secr?taire d'Etat; Besnard, directeur de l'Acad?mie deFrance; Casaglia, chef du cabinet du ministre de l'Instruction publique;Oll?-Laprune, premier secr?taire de l'ambassade de France; Poggi,directeur de la Galerie des Offices de Florence.M. Credaro prend la parole et, s'adressant ? M. Barr?re, il lui ditcombien la nation italienne est heureuse de pouvoir restituer ? lanation fran?aise, qui donna l'hospitalit? et prodigua les honneurs auVinci, fils illustre de l'Italie, dans les derni?res ann?es de sa vie,le pr?cieux tableau enlev? aux glorieuses salles du Louvre. ?Que VotreExcellence veuille bien, dit en terminant le ministre, recevoir lechef-d'oeuvre du grand Florentin comme un gage d'amiti? et de solidarit?entre les deux peuples, dans les hautes sph?res de l'art et del'humanit?.?M. Camille Barr?re prit ? son tour la parole. Assez ?mu, l'ambassadeur,dans une brillante improvisation, exprima ? M. Credaro les sentiments dereconnaissance de la France pour les proc?d?s si spontan?ment amicaux dugouvernement italien, et sa joie de recouvrer enfin le chef-d'oeuvred'un homme dont le g?nie universel a ?largi les bornes de l'intelligencehumaine.?Je tiens, ajouta M. Barr?re, au moment o? vous me remettez la _Joconde_et o? je l'emporte au palais Farn?se, ? vous dire combien je suis touch?que ce soit ? l'Italie que revienne le privil?ge de la restituer ? laFrance.?On lit ensuite l'acte de consignation du tableau au gouvernementfran?ais, qui est sign? par MM. Credaro, di San Giuliano et Barr?re, etpar MM. Vicini, Besnard, Ricci et Poggi comme t?moins.C'est fait: la _Joconde_ est redevenue fran?aise. M. Ricci la replaceavec une d?licatesse toute paternelle dans la bo?te de noyer, puis,s'approchant de M. Oll?-Laprune, lui dit en souriant: ?Veuillezconstater que c'est bien la _Joconde_ que j'enferme dans cette bo?te.?M. Oll?-Laprune n'a pas de peine ? d?clarer reconna?tre que c'est lechef-d'oeuvre de L?onard de Vinci qui est dans le coffret dont on luiremet la clef et, au milieu des conversations amicales, on descend surla place o? les automobiles attendent les ministres et l'ambassadeur.Quelques minutes apr?s, Monna Lisa entre au palais Farn?se et prendplace dans la galerie des Carrache. La premi?re visite qu'elle y re?oitest celle de S. M. la reine Marguerite, qui, pendant pr?s d'une heure,s'entretient avec l'ambassadrice et ses quelques invit?es. Vers 3heures, tous les membres du corps diplomatique, les personnalit?s de lacolonie fran?aise et les notabilit?s romaines remplissent les salons del'ambassade d'un public d'?lite, heureux de pouvoir contempler la belleoeuvre du grand ma?tre florentin.Demain, la _Joconde_ restera au palais Farn?se; de mardi ? samedi, ellesera expos?e ? la galerie Borgh?se, puis, dimanche prochain,probablement, elle partira pour Milan, d'o? elle rentrera directement ?Paris.ROBERT VAUCHER.DEUX PHOTOGRAPHIES GRANDEUR NATURE PERMETTANT D'IDENTIFIER LA JOCONDE[Illustration: Illustration: _CLICH? BRAUN et Cie, EXECUTE AU MUS?E DULOUVRE, AVANT LE VOL. Reproduction sans aucune retouche, montrant toutesles craquelures de la peinture et la trace d'une fente dans lepanneau._][Illustration: Illustration: _CLICH? A. BROGI, EX?CUT? AUX OFFICES, AFLORENCE, LE 17 D?CEMBRE 1913 Reproduction sans aucune retouche,montrant toutes les craquelures de la peinture et la trace d'une fentedans le panneau._][Illustration: Le g?n?ral Liman von Sanders et les officiers allemandssortant de la Sublime-Porte.]LES GARDIENS ALLEMANDS DU BOSPHOREIl faut le reconna?tre, la diplomatie allemande ? Constantinoplecontinue de l'emporter sur toutes les diplomaties de l'Europe. Par sonactivit? inlassable, par son habilet? souple et soutenue, par sonopini?tret? que rien ne rebute, elle vient de r?aliser un nouveau succ?sd'influence, mais cette fois un succ?s tellement exceptionnel, tellementimpr?vu, apr?s les d?ceptions de la guerre, et tellement mena?ant aussipour tout ce qui n'est ni allemand ni turc, qu'elle en est comme un peu?mue elle-m?me et qu'elle s'efforce, par des commentaires officieux,d'en att?nuer la port?e. Les troupes turques, pr?par?es ? l'allemandeavant leurs d?sastres, re?oivent ? nouveau, pour pr?sider ? leurr?organisation, des instructeurs allemands. Mais quels instructeurs!C'est toute une mission militaire formidable, telle qu'on n'en vitjamais une semblable dans l'empire d'Osman. Un g?n?ral chef de corps, ung?n?ral major et cinquante officiers sont envoy?s ? Constantinople. Etcela ne serait rien encore si le g?n?ral chef de corps ne recevait uncommandement effectif, s'il n'?tait mis ? la t?te des troupes m?mes qui,en cas de guerre, d?fendraient la capitale. En d'autres termes, leg?n?ral von Sanders, devenu le chef du 1er corps d'arm?e, se voitattribuer, par cet emploi, la garde du Bosphore.L'?v?nement est grave, ?plus grave--a-t-on ?crit--que tout ce qui vientde se r?aliser dans les Balkans?. L'Europe s'est inqui?t?e tout desuite. Mais la Russie devait plus particuli?rement et plus violemments'?mouvoir. Il ne faut pas oublier en effet que le Bosphore est pour laRussie m?ridionale la seule voie maritime qui la relie au monde. C'estpar cet ?troit couloir qu'elle achemine la plus grande partie de sesexportations. Un ?tat-major ?tranger ma?tre des forces militaires deConstantinople, c'est la Russie embouteill?e dans la mer Noire. C'est laclef de la M?diterran?e remise entre des mains allemandes... Contrecette situation, la Russie a protest? aupr?s du grand vizir, le 13d?cembre dernier. Les deux autres puissances de la Triple Entente sesont associ?es ? sa ?question? sur les attributions r?serv?es ? lamission allemande. Le grand vizir a r?pondu aux ambassadeurs que lesattributions du g?n?ral allemand ne s'?tendraient pas ? la d?fense desD?troits, affirmation diplomatique que contredit, sur le terrain desr?alit?s, la nature m?me de l'emploi attribu? au g?n?ral Liman vonSanders. La Russie ne para?t pas devoir se contenter de cetted?claration et la discussion reste ouverte.... Pendant ce temps, la mission s'installe ? Constantinople. Elle y estarriv?e, le 14, habilement, en appareil modeste. Le g?n?ral von Sanderset ses officiers portaient la petite tenue des officiers turcs de leurgrade, et l'ambassade allemande n'?tait pas ? la gare. Apr?s avoir ?t?pr?sent? au grand vizir et re?u par le sultan, le g?n?ral von Sanders apris le commandement du 1er corps d'arm?e; et le vendredi 19 d?cembreles nouvelles autorit?s militaires allemandes de la capitale ottomaneassistaient au Selamlik.[Illustration: G?n?ral L. von Sanders. La mission militaire allemande ?Constantinople.--_Photographies Ferid Ibrahim._](Deux pages manquantes.)[Illustration: Sous l'oeil de la cliente difficile]... deux et trois heures durant, pendant que le Grand Couturier attendl'inspiration qui ne vient pas toujours... Et c'est l'attente patiente,les bras nus et lev?s, tandis que les ciseaux coupent et taillent dansles b?tis de toile, tandis qu'on ?pingle, qu'on drape, qu'on d?coud,qu'on fait et qu'on d?fait autour de vous ces premi?res et incertaines?fondations? de ce qui doit ?tre une merveille de robe, mieux qu'unerobe: un r?ve, un souffle, un rien adorable,--et co?teux... que d'autresporteront...                                *                               * *Le matin, les mannequins ?passent les robes? devant les commissionnaireset les courtiers pour l'?tranger. C'est une c?r?monie agr?able. Lecommissionnaire est bon enfant, le plus souvent: et il apporte desbonbons ? ces demoiselles. A-t-on jamais vu qu'une demoiselle n'aim?tpoint les bonbons?--L'apr?s-midi, il y a l'essayage, la venue desclientes, les petits travaux de couture... Entre temps, les mannequinsvivent dans une petite pi?ce qui leur est r?serv?e et qu'elles nommentle ?cagibi?. Elles y demeurent, comme aim?es au harem, riant, sereposant, lisant les _Aventures de Ronchonnot_, ou _Zigomar_, jouant auxcartes, ? pigeon vole, ou ? se dire la bonne aventure, ou occup?es ?rien faire, ce qui est leur distraction la plus usuelle, tandis qu'ellesse racontent sans se lasser leurs confidences ou leurs espoirs, leurschagrins d'amour ou moins encore... Et comme on n'est pas faite, quandon est bien faite, quand on est jeune et jolie, pour rester mannequintoute sa vie, elles envisagent l'avenir...Les plus sages voudraient devenir vendeuses. Mais, pour ?tre vendeuse,chez le Grand Couturier, il faut parler anglais. Alors, elles vont chezBerlitz, le soir, en attendant qu'un hasard heureux leur permette depasser la Manche. Les plus disgraci?es aspirent ? ?tre employ?es auxmanutentions. Les plus folles r?vent de th??tre et font des ch?teaux enEspagne... Et la venue d'une cliente interrompt tous ces papotages,toutes ces esp?rances:--Mesdemoiselles, voulez-vous montrer les robes du soir...Et la th?orie des mannequins, soudain rev?tus de brocatelles, de satins,de soies, de velours, arrive en tanguant, pour ?passer?... C'est la plusjeune d'entre elles, et la plus sage qui passe en premier. Ainsi le veutla tradition, dans certaines maisons... ?a porte bonheur...Alors, derri?re elle, elles se mettent ? d?filer. Et chacune, ? partsoi, r?ve vaguement au jour bienheureux o? elle viendra pour son proprecompte chez le Grand Couturier, et, bien au chaud dans ses fourrures quiseront ? elle, ce jour-l?, demandera, comme la riche cliente devant quielle passe et qui la regarde, d?daigneuse et difficile, demandera aupatron d'hier, au Grand Couturier soudain respectueux et attentif, qu'onveuille bien faire passer devant elle ces demoiselles, avec les plusr?centes cr?ations...?MILE HENRIOT[Illustration: Un essayage.][Illustration:Le pr?sident Wilson. Mrs Wilson. M. Francis Bowes Sayre.Mrs. Francis Bowes Sayre.Le mariage de la seconde fille du pr?sident Wilson: le groupe desparents et des demoiselles d'honneur.]UN GRAND MARIAGE AM?RICAINLe mardi 25 novembre, M. Woodrow Wilson, pr?sident de la R?publique desEtats-Unis, mariait sa seconde fille, miss Jessie Wilson, ? M. FrancisBowes Sayre, professeur de l'Universit?,--comme le pr?sident lui-m?me.Ce fut une c?r?monie aust?re. Pas d'uniformes. Et les membres du corpsdiplomatique qu'il avait bien fallu se r?signer ? convier, quoi qu'end?t souffrir la modestie, avaient ?t? pri?s de venir eux-m?mes dans leplus simple appareil: pas de broderies, pas d'ordres, pas de chamarres!Quelle le?on s?v?re pour les prodigues milliardaires et toutes leursfolies!Mais la photographie que nous reproduisons, et qui montre les jeunes?poux au milieu de leurs parents, de leurs demoiselles et gar?onsd'honneur, semble r?v?ler encore une autre preuve de l'esprit derenoncement qui anime et guide le successeur de M. Taft ? la MaisonBlanche. Car enfin, dans ce pays o?, au dire de juges tr?s comp?tents,les beaut?s f?minines abondent, pullulent, on est un peu d??u de ne pasles voir, ? ce mariage, malgr? tout illustre, repr?sent?es dansl'entourage imm?diat de la mari?e par des exemplaires plusconvaincants,--non plus d'ailleurs que l'?l?gance virile anglo-saxonnene l'est dans l'assistance masculine. Le pr?sident Wilson doit ?tred?cid?ment un asc?te.AVIATEURS ESPAGNOLS BLESS?S EN GUERRELes Espagnols, appliqu?s dans leur zone, comme nous dans la n?tre, ?poursuivre leur oeuvre d'occupation et de pacification, ont ?tabli, ?T?touan, un parc d'aviation fort bien install?, comme on en peut jugerpar la photographie qui en fut prise pr?cis?ment par l'un des officiersaviateurs.Or, r?cemment, un de leurs a?roplanes faillit bien tomber aux mains desArabes. C'est presque un miracle s'il put ?chapper ? leurs coups.Deux officiers le montaient, ayant pour mission d'aller op?rer unereconnaissance dans les environs de la place. Tr?s audacieusement, ilsse tenaient ? une faible hauteur, afin, sans doute, de pouvoir proc?der? des constatations plus pr?cises, et ne soup?onnant pas qu'ilspouvaient ?tre expos?s ? quelque surprise. Or, ils avaient ?t? aper?uspar une troupe ennemie parfaitement embusqu?e.Des balles siffl?rent autour d'eux, dont ils entendirent le choc matcontre les ailes. Eux-m?mes furent atteints, l'observateur, le capitaineBarreiro, tr?s gri?vement, au ventre et ? la poitrine.L'?nergique officier fit montre d'un courage surhumain. Encourageant soncompagnon, il l'exhortait ? acc?l?rer sa marche, afin de gagner en h?tele camp, ?loign? d'une vingtaine de kilom?tres.En quelques tours d'h?lice, d'ailleurs, ils avaient ?t? hors de laport?e de cette fusillade meurtri?re.Enfin, ils purent atterrir. Mais le capitaine Barreiro, ?puis? par toutle sang qu'il avait perdu et les efforts qu'il avait faits, semblaitmort. On eut beaucoup de peine ? le ranimer.On se livra ? un examen minutieux de l'appareil. Les si?gesqu'occupaient les deux aviateurs ruisselaient de sang, et des traces decoups de feu se constataient en divers endroits; les Arabes s'?taientmontr?s excellents et s?rs tireurs. C'est la premi?re fois,croyons-nous, que des officiers sont ainsi bless?s en action de guerre.Aussi le roi Alphonse a-t-il tenu ? r?compenser sans d?lai cesdeux vaillants soldats.[Illustration: Vue du camp d'aviation de T?touan.][Illustration: Apr?s le p?rilleux raid: l'examen des traces des ballesmarocaines.]LE ROI CONSTANTIN DE GR?CE EN FAMILLEApr?s onze mois d'?tat de guerre qui ?loign?rent presque constamment leroi Constantin de son foyer, la paix de Bucarest, puis celle d'Ath?nes,lui ont permis de quitter Salonique et la Mac?doine pour reprendre, dansle petit palais ath?nien qu'il occupait comme diadoque et dans lequel ildemeure encore actuellement, la simple vie de famille. C'est dans lapetite salle ? manger, le _breakfast room_ de la r?sidence princi?re dela rue H?rode l'Attique, qui se trouve derri?re le palais royald'Ath?nes, que cette photographie a ?t? r?cemment prise. Le roi est avecles siens autour de la table du petit d?jeuner du matin.A sa droite est la reine Sophie, soeur de l'empereur d'Allemagne. Elletient dans ses bras la petite princesse Catherine, ?g?e d'? peine huitmois. Cette fillette est l'enfant qui a le plus de parrains au monde. Aumoment de sa naissance, un grand souffle de gloire militaire passait surla Gr?ce. Le roi eut la jolie id?e de confier ? toute son arm?e et ?toute sa marine le soin et la faveur du parrainage. Catherine est lafilleule de l'arm?e grecque et, au cours de la seconde guerre, iln'?tait pas rare d'entendre des soldats parler du roi non pas toujourssous le sobriquet de _Costa fallas_ (Constantin le sabreur), mais souscelui de _Koumbans_ (le papa de la petite).A la gauche du roi est la princesse H?l?ne, sa fille a?n?e, ?g?e dedix-sept ans. Le second fils du roi, le prince Alexandre, ?g? de vingtans, est assis ? c?t? de sa soeur et a pour voisin de gauche son fr?rePaul (Pavlos), un gar?onnet de douze ans qui porte, ? la mode anglaise,tr?s en faveur ? la cour d'Ath?nes, le petit veston et le col d'Eton. Ala droite de la reine est le prince Georges, le diadoque, h?ritier de lacouronne. Il a vingt-trois ans et a fait, aux c?t?s de son p?re, lesdeux campagnes. Il fut, de plus, au printemps de cette ann?e, charg?d'une mission en Epire o? la population lui fit le plus ?mouvantaccueil. Sa jeune soeur, la princesse Ir?ne, qui f?tera en f?vrierprochain son dixi?me anniversaire, est au bout de la table.[Illustration: Le petit d?jeuner du matin de la famille royale de Gr?ce.De gauche ? droite: la princesse Ir?ne, le prince-diadoque Georges, lareine Sophie tenant dans ses bras la petite princesse Catherine, le roi,la princesse H?l?ne, les princes Alexandre et Paul.--_Phot.Boehringer._]Les traditions de simplicit? et de grand attachement familial que levieux roi Christian IX de Danemark avait impos?es ? tous ses descendantssont rest?es en honneur aupr?s de son petit-fils et, ? Ath?nes comme ?Copenhague, un peu d'anglomanie (la reine, quoique soeur de GuillaumeII, est la plus fervente admiratrice de tout ce qui vient d'Angleterre)cherche ? masquer certaines influences germaniques. L'empereurd'Allemagne lui-m?me est d'ailleurs le premier ? n'?crire qu'en anglais? son beau-fr?re.L'?LECTRICIT? A BORD DES AUTOMOBILESLe dernier Salon de l'Automobile a r?v?l? ? ses visiteurs un faitnouveau: la prise de possession de la voiture par l'?lectricit?.Entendons-nous bien tout de suite. Il ne s'agit point du tout d'uner?volution dans le mode de traction de la voiture, de l'av?nement, enfindurable, de la _voiture ?lectrique_. Non. Le moteur ? explosions, avecses incomparables qualit?s de puissance, de l?g?ret?, de solidit? etd'?conomie, demeure ma?tre absolu de tout v?hicule qui va sans chevauxsur les routes. Il s'agit seulement d'une grande am?lioration dans leconfort de la voiture: l'automobile a fait mettre l'?lectricit? chezelle.D?sormais, en effet, une automobile qui se pique de modernisme ne tol?replus que, la nuit, la route soit ?clair?e devant elle autrement que parl'?lectricit?. Elle ne souffre plus qu'on lance son moteur ? lamanivelle; elle le veut mis en marche ? l'?lectricit?. C'estl'?lectricit? qui actionne son avertisseur; qui demain fera mouvoir lapompe d'air pour les pneumatiques, voire les glaces de la limousine; quiembrayera, freinera et op?rera les changements de vitesses. Voil? doncbien du nouveau!Cette transformation s'accompagne fatalement de quantit? d'expressionsnouvelles dont il va falloir que les gens du monde, ou simplement lesgens instruits, connaissent le sens. Nous ne les passerons pas en revueici mais s'il pla?t aux lecteurs de _L'Illustration_, nous allons fairesous leurs yeux une analyse sommaire des ph?nom?nes auxquels nous devonsle courant ?lectrique, et nous verrons ainsi les expressions nouvellesvenir ? nous famili?rement.L'?lectricit? apporte ? l'automobile le premier bienfait d'un ?clairagequasi parfait. Je ne vanterai pas longuement les avantages del'?clairage radieux. Un coup de pouce, et l'on a de la lumi?re, de lalumi?re au point pr?cis o? on la d?sire! Un coup de pouce, et toutretombe dans les t?n?bres! Plus d'allumettes, plus de flamme et defum?e, plus de liquides sales, plus de pr?paratifs, et par contre,vraiment, on a le soleil la nuit!Mais ici vous m'arr?tez. Pourquoi n'?claire-t-on pas les automobiles aumoyen de piles? Les piles sont connues du public et de maniement assezsimple.Certes. Mais elles sont fragiles, encombrantes, pesantes, et surtoutelles sont extr?mement on?reuses. La plupart, et les moins mauvaises,sont des appareils dans lesquels on dissout peu ? peu du m?tal, ? lafa?on du sucre dans de l'eau, et un m?tal tr?s cher, le zinc. Laissonsdonc les piles aux timides sonneries d'appartements.Alors, pourquoi n'?claire-t-on pas les automobiles au moyend'accumulateurs? Nous allons voir qu'en effet la batteried'accumulateurs s'impose ? notre cas. Mais, si on voulait lui confier latotalit? du service d'?clairage, il faudrait lui donner un volume ?normedont le poids et l'encombrement seraient prohibitifs. Et puis, leur nomindique leur d?faut: ils ne cr?ent pas du courant, ils ne peuvent quegarder en r?serve l'?nergie dont on les a gav?s. Or, loin de toute usine?lectrique, priv?s des sp?cialistes qui savent r?ussir la d?licateop?ration, comment seraient-ils soumis ? une recharge? Il est doncn?cessaire que l'automobile fabrique elle-m?me, de par son moteur,l'?lectricit? dont elle a besoin; qu'elle ait ? son bord, en r?duction,une petite usine ?lectrique, usine non seulement analogue aux pluspuissantes, mais encore aggrav?e de complications inconnues ? un secteurde lumi?re. Ces complications tiennent d'abord aux changements d'alluressi variables d'un moteur d'automobile qui. ? tout moment et selon lesdifficult?s de la route, ralentit ou acc?l?re, et d?termine ainsi dansla source du courant des variations de d?bit qui vont depuis lerougeo?ment des lampes jusqu'? leur grillade instantan?e! Elles tiennentensuite aux arr?ts m?mes de ce moteur: quand la voiture attend le soirla sortie d'un th??tre, ou lorsqu'elle est en panne dans la rasecampagne, la nuit, il est indispensable qu'elle ne soit pas plong?e dansles t?n?bres bien que le moteur, g?n?rateur de son courant, demeureinanim?. Une batterie d'accumulateurs, mais petite et trapue, nous estdonc indispensable, puisqu'il y a des heures o? d'elle seule nouspouvons attendre du courant. Elle ne fait alors que nous restituerl'?nergie confi?e ? elle par notre moteur.Donc, c'est le moteur de la voiture qui fabrique l'?lectricit? par elled?pens?e. Comment le peut-il faire? Il le fait au moyen de cette machineadmirable qui constitue le seul moyen pratique jusqu'ici trouv? par leshommes pour faire na?tre le courant n?cessaire ? leur ?clairage, ? leurlocomotion, au transport de la force ? distance, etc., et qui s'appelleune machine _?lectro-magn?tique_. La _dynamo_, qui dor?navant donnera ?nos voitures l'?clairage, et la _magn?to_, qui depuis dix ans fournit ?nos moteurs l'allumage, sont deux soeurs de cette illustre famille. Motsun peu particuliers qui ne recouvrent cependant que des id?es fortsimples, on va le voir.Chacun de nous a eu certainement un jour ou l'autre entre les mains unaimant en fer ? cheval (fig. A) et en conna?t au moins sommairement lespropri?t?s. Si l'on jette sur cet aimant de la poussi?re de fer, de lalimaille tr?s fine, on voit qu'elle s'attache sur lui, en forme dehoupettes tr?s h?riss?es, ? ses deux extr?mit?s qu'on appelle ses_p?les_. La physique d?montre que d'un p?le ? l'autre sont, pour ainsidire, tendues, invisibles et impalpables, des _lignes de force_, assezcomparables, si l'on veut se contenter de cette image grossi?re, ? des?lastiques extr?mement t?nus.Or. un aimant nu, en acier, tel que celui-ci. un aimant dit permanentparce que sa force ne peut pas changer ? notre gr?, est peu puissant. Onobtient un aimant beaucoup plus fort, ? dimensions ?gales, en prenant dufer _doux_, c'est-?-dire aussi pur que possible, en entourant le corpsde la pi?ce, ou bien chacune de ses jambes, d'un grand nombre de toursde fil de cuivre recouvert de coton, dont on forme une _bobine_, et enfaisant passer dans cette longue et fine canalisation un courant?lectrique, celui d'une pile par exemple, qui a pour objet del'_exciter_, de lui donner temporairement les propri?t?s magn?tiques Ona ainsi, cr?? un _?lectro-aimant_, l'organe-roi de toutes lesapplications de l'?lectricit?, depuis la sonnerie jusqu'? la locomotive?lectrique, depuis le tramway jusqu'? la t?l?graphie sans fil.L'?lectro-aimant est capable d'un travail beaucoup plus grand quel'aimant permanent puisqu'il peut donner normalement jusqu'? 20,000lignes de force par centim?tre carr?, alors que son maigre camarade n'enfournit au maximum que 5,000 ? 6,000.Ainsi pourvus d'une source importante de magn?tisme, livrons-nous ? unepetite exp?rience qui va nous r?v?ler un autre ph?nom?ne d'importanceextr?me puisque, s'il n'existait pas, aucune des applicationsindustrielles de l'?lectricit? ne serait elle-m?me r?alis?e.Prenons un fil de cuivre recouvert de coton (les lignes de forcetraversent ais?ment le coton, alors que le courant ?lectrique est arr?t?par lui). Faisons de ce fil une boucle que nous tenons entre le pouce etl'index, et attachons ses deux bouts ? un galvanom?tre, appareil quinous dira ce qui va se passer dans ce fil.Pla?ons vivement la boucle ou _spire_ en plein dans les lignes de force(fig. B). L'aiguille du galvanom?tre a boug?; puis elle est tout desuite revenue ? l'immobilit?. Retirons la spire hors des lignes deforce: j'aiguille a encore boug?, puis est revenue ? z?ro.Nous en concluons avec raison ceci: chaque fois que nous avons, au moyende notre spire, coup? les lignes de force de l'?lectro-aimant, etseulement au moment pr?cis o? nous les coupions, un courant ?lectriques'est produit dans cette spire, y a ?t? _induit_, pour parler le langagetechnique. C'est, en effet, l'?nergie m?canique de notre main qui s'esttransform?e en ?nergie ?lectrique.Si peu de travail s'est mu? en courant. Quelle abondance d'?lectricit?n'obtiendrons-nous pas quand nous demanderons au moteur de notre voiturede se substituer ? nous pour d?placer la spire dans le champ magn?tique!Mais comment le moteur s'y prendra-t-il pour effectuer ces coupuresextr?mement rapides des lignes de force? Au lieu de pr?senter et deretirer la spire aux lignes de force, nous la ferons tourner au milieud'elles, tout simplement. A cet effet, nous prendrons un axe en fer,termin? par une port?e ? chaque bout afin qu'il puisse prendre surlui-m?me un mouvement de rotation; nous bobinerons sur lui un grandnombre de tours de fil, afin que le courant produit soit, plus puissant,et nous chargerons le moteur de faire, au moyen d'un engrenage, tournertr?s rapidement cet _induit_. Si nous mettons aux extr?mit?s de cebobinage une lampe, elle s'?clairera tant que l'induit tournera (fig.C).Voici donc constitu?e, par un ?lectro-aimant et par un induit qui tourneentre ses masses polaires, une dynamo. Mais tout aussit?t lesdifficult?s d'application commencent.Tout d'abord le courant qui est produit de la sorte est du courant_alternatif_, c'est-?-dire (je ne puis en donner les raisons ici) qu'ilva de droite ? gauche pendant un demi-tour de l'induit, et de gauche ?droite pendant l'autre demi-tour. La lampe ?lectrique s'en accommodefort bien, mais le personnage d?sagr?able dont la pr?sence dans notrejeu est in?vitable, je l'ai montr?, la batterie d'accumulateurs, va toutde suite brouiller nos cartes. Comme elle ne peut supporter le courantalternatif, elle exige que la dynamo, qui est charg?e de la nourrir, nelui fournisse que du courant _continu_, un courant qui aille toujoursdans le m?me sens! Ainsi le constructeur est-il oblig? d'installer surla dynamo un petit organe suppl?mentaire, heureusement fort simple,qu'on appelle un _collecteur-redresseur_, et qui a pour objet detransformer le courant alternatif de la dynamo en un courant de sensconstant. Les ouvrages sp?ciaux expliquent le fonctionnement de cetorgane.[Illustration: Fig. A.-Aimant permanent et ?lectro aimants.--1. Aimantpermanent (morceau d'acier dur recourb? puis aimant?).--2.Electro-aimant (morceau de fer entour? d'une longue spirale qui luiconf?re les propri?t?s magn?tiques pendant tout le temps qu'elle esttravers?e par un courant).--3. On donne aux deux extr?mit?s d'un?lectro-aimant une forme appropri?e qu'on nomme _masse polaire_;l'ensemble est l'_inducteur_ de la dynamo.][Illustration: Fig. B.-Exp?rience sch?matique montrant qu'un courant estinduit dans le fil aux moments o? la spire coupe les lignes de force del'inducteur.]La seconde difficult? est celle-ci: les accumulateurs cherchent ? jouerun vilain tour ? la dynamo. A force de s'emmagasiner dans la batterie,le fluide ?lectrique prend en quelque sorte du ressort, de la tension,et, au fur et ? mesure que la dynamo envoie aux accumulateurs ducourant, ils cherchent ? s'en d?faire, c'est-?-dire ? le d?charger enelle! Tant que leur tension demeure inf?rieure ? celle de la dynamo,tout demeure normal, car, de deux courants directement oppos?s, c'est?videmment le plus fort qui d?termine le sens de courant g?n?ral Mais siles accumulateurs l'emportent, m?me momentan?ment (et il suffit que lemoteur ralentisse beaucoup, dans une rampe par exemple, pour que lecourant de la dynamo baisse au point de devenir pratiquement nul), ilsce d?chargent, sans c?r?monie, dans la dynamo, laquelle est ainsi mise ?mal.Donc, ici encore, il a fallu imaginer un organe de s?curit?, un_conjoncteur-disjoncteur_ qui automatiquement ferm?t la porte aucourant qui veut aller vers la dynamo et l'ouvr?t au contraire aucourant qui va vers la batterie; qui, en outre, et toujoursautomatiquement, aux moments o? la dynamo ne donne aux lampes qu'uncourant trop pauvre pour l'?clairage (ralentissement extr?me du moteur),ou m?me n'en donne pas du tout (arr?t du moteur), envoy?t ? ces lampesle courant des accumulateurs.Troisi?me difficult?. Les accumulateurs sont susceptibles d'acqu?rir unmaximum de tension connu, qu'ils ne d?passeront jamais, sous peine d'en?tre tout d?sorganis?s. Il est donc indispensable que la dynamo seconforme ? ce maximum et ne soit pas capable d'envoyer aux lampes uncourant plus ?lev? que celui qui peut ?tre fourni par les accumulateurs.La r?sistance des lampes est par cons?quent d?termin?e par le nombred'accumulateurs qui forment la batterie, et non par la puissance de ladynamo. Or, comme la dynamo donne un courant de tension d'autant plusgrande qu'elle tourne plus vite, et que le moteur qui l'entra?ne peutparfois l'entra?ner ? de folles allures, il est indispensable qu'ellesoit assagie, qu'elle comporte un r?gulateur qui calme soit sa vitessesoit son excitation, qui la mette ?au pas? et prot?ge ainsi les lampescontre des variations de tension d?sagr?ables ? la vue, ou contre desexag?rations de courant qui les br?leraient sur-le-champ. Comment cetter?gulation peut-elle ?tre faite? Je me bornerai ? r?pondre que c'est l?un des points encore o? la bataille des constructeurs est le plusacharn?e: sept ou huit proc?d?s sont en pr?sence.Le probl?me de l'?clairage ?lectrique des automobiles pr?sente donc desinguli?res difficult?s, on le comprend. Il est probablement superfluque je d?clare n'avoir fait ici que l'effleurer ? peine.Maintenant, pour nous consoler de tant de peines, veut-on bien que nousfassions une derni?re exp?rience qui, elle, va nous donner une surpriseheureuse?Supposons que la dynamo que nous venons de construire soit d?tach?e dumoteur qui l'entra?ne pour produire du courant, et qu'elle soit arr?t?e.Relions ses deux balais aux deux bornes de la batterie d'accumulateursau moyen de fils: voici tout ? coup notre induit qui se met ? tournerfollement sur lui-m?me entre les branches de l'aimant! Il est devenumoteur.En effet, dans une dynamo, les ph?nom?nes sont r?versibles: si on luidonne du mouvement (en faisant tourner son induit). elle rend du courantelle est _g?n?ratrice_; et si au contraire on donne du courant ? soninduit, elle rend du mouvement (elle se met ? tourner), elle est_motrice_.Ces observations faites, r?capitulons, si vous le voulez bien, lesmoyens que l'?lectricit? met ainsi ? notre disposition dans uneautomobile moderne. Nous avons:1. Une source ind?finie de courant, la dynamo. Tant que le moteur de lavoiture tourne, le torrent passe. Qu'en ferons-nous? Nous diviserons cetorrent en ruisseaux que nous enverrons un peu dans tous les coins denotre voiture, comme un montagnard avis? d?tourne en filets l'eau dutorrent pour en arroser ces prairies. Des fils porteront le fluide auxphares d'autres aux lanternes, un autre au falot r?glementaire du num?rode police d'arri?re. Nous profiterons de notre richesse de lumi?re pouren apporter un peu ? l'int?rieur m?me de notre carrosserie, ? unplafonnier qui permettra ? Monsieur de dire, ? Madame d'?merveiller lespassants; pour en donner aussi ? notre m?canicien qui ainsi surveilleracomme en plein jour le d?bit de l'huile, l'indicateur de vitesse, oum?me l'amp?rem?tre et le voltm?tre du _tableau_ qui lui disent si sapetite usine ?lectrique se porte bien; pour lui en donner encore au boutd'une _baladeuse_ qui, en cas de panne, lui permettra de mettre desclart?s dans les entrailles de sa machine! Enfin, le solde de ce torrentainsi r?parti sera absorb? par notre caisse d'?pargne, notre batteried'accumulateurs.2. Nous avons ? bord cette batterie, qui ne demande qu'? nous rendre lecourant pr?t?. Elle le met ? notre disposition pour trois effetsdiff?rents. Par elle, nous pouvons tout d'abord faire de _l'?clairage_,ainsi que je l'ai d?montr?. Par elle il nous est loisible ensuite defaire de la _traction_. Installons un petit moteur ?lectrique aupr?s duvolant du moteur de la voiture, et envoyons-lui un peu du courantenferm? dans la batterie: voici ce gros moteur r?veill? et lanc?!Construisons un moteur ?lectrique microscopique; munissons-le d'unepetite roue ? dents de scie qui vient gratter sur un disque en t?le;enfermons le tout dans un ?tui m?tallique, avec un pavillon qui amplifiele son... et, lorsqu'un peu du courant de la batterie passera dans cemoteur lilliputien, le monstre fera entendre son barrissement! Par unjeu de tout petits moteurs encore, un inventeur a propos?, comme je l'aidit, qu'on f?t manoeuvrer les glaces. Demain on r?alisera de la m?mefa?on des crics et des pompes.Par la batterie enfin nous pouvons faire du _chauffage_. On sait qu'uncourant ?lectrique ?chauffe toujours le fil au travers duquel il passe.La temp?rature ainsi produite est imperceptible si la grosseur et lalongueur du fil sont calcul?es de telle sorte que le ph?nom?ne n'aitgu?re lieu; mais, inversement, il est facile de cr?er au courant uner?sistance d?termin?e qui, pour une valeur donn?e, provoquera le simple?chauffement du fil ? 40 ou 50 degr?s par exemple, ou son incandescencem?me; on constituera ainsi un tapis souple pour les pieds de Madame etun allumoir pour le cigare de Monsieur.Tels sont donc les principaux ?l?ments d'une installation d'?lectricit?dans une automobile de 1914. Quel est maintenant l'avenir?L'avenir est h?riss? de plus de difficult?s que je n'en ai ?num?r?encore! Car il s'agit aujourd'hui de simplifier, donc de serrer de pluspr?s la perfection. La premi?re victime, semble-t-il, sera la petitemagn?to, si fid?le, si timide... Elle allume le moteur: sa soeur ladynamo ne le fera-t-elle pas aussi bien qu'elle?La seconde absorption sera celle du moteur-d?marreur: puisque, je l'aiexpliqu?, une dynamo est r?versible et peut jouer, au gr? du conducteur,le r?le de _g?n?ratrice_ ou de _r?ceptrice_ de courant, pourquoicontinuerait-on ? s?parer cette double fonction pour la confier ? deuxorganes distincts?Et puis pourquoi la dynamo, ? son tour, ne subirait-elle pas unetransformation heureuse? Elle est pesante; or, un organe du moteur ?explosions doit n?cessairement ?tre pesant: le volant. Pourquoi la?dynamo-magn?to-d?marreur? ne serait-elle pas mu?e en volant? Lesservices ?lectriques d'une automobile seraient ainsi ?condens?s? en ununique organe.Mais une for?t de probl?mes enchev?tr?s s?pare encore de cette lueurlointaine les inventeurs... les inventeurs aux bottes de sept lieues.L. BAUDRY DE SAUNIER.[Illustration: Fig. C.--Induits sch?matiques--1. Le fil, guip? de cotonou de soie, est bobin? un grand nombre de fois sur une pi?ce en ferdoux, afin que la tension du courant produit soit plus grande; une lampeattach?e ? ses deux extr?mit?s pourra recevoir ce courant _alternatif_et s'allumer quand l'induit tournera ? une vitesse suffisante.--2. Labatterie ne pouvant accepter de courant alternatif, l'induit est munid'un collecteur qui, au moyen de balais, _redresse_ le courantalternatif; la lampe est ainsi aliment?e par du courant _continu_ quilui vient tant?t de la dynamo, tant?t de la batterie.][Illustration: Fig. D.--Les principales applications du courant?lectrique ? bord d'une automobile de 1914.]CE QU'IL FAUT VOIRPETIT GUIDE DE L'?TRANGER A PARISLes petites baraques ont surgi du sol. C'est la floraison miraculeusedont, chaque hiver, quatre ou cinq jours avant No?l, Paris donne lespectacle ? ses habitants. Un beau soir, on a quitt? le boulevard, sansse douter de rien; on y revient le lendemain: stupeur! De la Madeleine ?la Bastille, deux alignements presque ininterrompus de maisonnettes enplanches grises couvrent les trottoirs. Cela s'est ?difi? soudainement,en une nuit, sans d?sordre, comme un ?d?ballage? d'articles de Paris quedes mains invisibles auraient pos?s sur les deux planches inf?rieures dequelque interminable ?tag?re... Je dis qu'elles sont en planches grises.On ne s'en aper?oit pas partout. La R?clame, l'envahissante etomnipotente R?clame, ne pouvait pas n?gliger plus longtemps les?surfaces libres? que lui offraient les dos et les flancs des petitesbaraques. Elle s'y est donc abattue sans piti?. Et ces bariolages, cettepolychromie d'affiches ach?vent de rendre effarant, vertigineux,l'encombrement de la Rue!Les vieux Parisiens d?testent cet encombrement. Les vieux Parisiensfuiront ces jours-ci le Boulevard et les petites baraques. Je ne sauraistrop recommander aux ?trangers de ne pas suivre un tel exemple. Il fautvoir, m?me en jouant des coudes et en souffrant que, de temps ? autre,un passant vous marche sur les pieds, il faut voir les baraques du Jourde l'An; et aussi la foule ing?nue qui les regarde. Je l'ai dit biensouvent; rien n'est plus propre ? nous renseigner sur l'?tat d'?me etsur les go?ts d'une foule que son attitude devant les spectacles de larue. En observant, sur les boulevards, autour de quels ?talages elles'arr?te de pr?f?rence, vous remarquerez que nous n'avons pas cess?d'aimer l'?loquence, et que le marchand qu'on entoure est, d'abord, lemarchand qui p?rore. Le Parisien adore le boniment, et pour peu que dela bonne humeur et un brin d'esprit assaisonnent ce bavardage en pleinvent--si rude que puisse ?tre la temp?rature--il s'arr?te; il ?coute; ilest conquis.Ses ?articles? pr?f?r?s? Toujours les m?mes. Le jouet nouveau, qui faitrire et qu'actionne quelque myst?rieuse m?canique. Car il convient qu'?l'attrait du comique s'ajoute celui du myst?re; et la joie du spectateurest compl?te si ? cette double s?duction se surajoute celle del'actualit?. (Je n'ai pas besoin de dire que les joujoux a?ronautiquessont, cette ann?e, au premier rang de cette cat?gorie.) A c?t? du jouetm?canique--a?roplane ou pantin--il y a les ustensiles ou lesproduits--quels qu'ils soient--dont l'emploi n?cessite un peu d'adressemanuelle et provoque chez le spectateur une surprise. Car nous aimonsl'adresse et nous adorons d'?tre surpris. Le moule d'o? sort une gaufreinstantan?ment fabriqu?e est de forme jolie, le pot ? colle gr?ce auquelune assiette cass?e sous nos yeux est reconstitu?e en trente secondes,?plus solide qu'auparavant?, le taille-crayon nouveau mod?le, lestylographe inversable ?? la port?e des plus petites bourses?, la cartede visite et le bonbon qu'on voit na?tre, et tomber, tout fait, de lamachine portative qui les produit,--voil? du plaisir, et de quoiretenir, ravis et transis, autour des petites baraques, des milliers debraves gens!                                *                               * *... A Courbevoie, au coin de la rue de la Montagne; en face du pavillonvermoulu de la Belle Gabrielle (une ruine qui aurait encore sa beaut?...si on voulait): la grande maison blanche o? tant d'artistes, jeunes etvieux--peintres, com?diens, gens de lettres, sculpteurs--aiment ? seretrouver de temps en temps, parmi des rires et des chants de petitsgar?ons et de petites filles. C'?tait f?te, il y a quelques jours, danscette maison-l?. Arbre de No?l! Distribution de cadeaux, de jouets, delivres. Des r?citations, de la musique, un go?ter... et desphotographes. Sur les panneaux de marbre blanc qui sont l'uniqued?coration du pr?au couvert o? se donne cette f?te de familles'inscrivent des noms presque tous c?l?bres dans la litt?rature et dansl'art: les noms des bienfaiteurs et des bienfaitrices, des ?patrons? decette oeuvre g?n?reuse et charmante ? laquelle sont attach?s deux nomsde femmes: Mme Marie Laurent, Mme Poilpot. _L'Orphelinat des Arts_n'accueillait jusqu'en ces derni?res ann?es que des fillettes. Il s'estagrandi. Sous la g?n?reuse inspiration du regrett? ma?tre Roty, il aouvert ses portes aux petits gar?ons. Ils sont l? une vingtained'orphelins, ? c?t? des fillettes orphelines, si gentilles sousl'uniforme bleu. Debout sur deux rangs, elles pr?sentaient, l'autrejour, ? la lumi?re du soleil le double alignement de leurs belleschevelures tombantes; des chevelures qui ne sont ni trop brunes ni tropblondes, ni du Nord ni du Midi, mais de cette jolie coloration att?nu?e,_moyenne_, de ce ch?tain clair qui semblait, ? distance, compl?terl'uniforme, et l'expression si fran?aise des types. Chacun de cespupilles est l'enfant d'un artiste disparu, et qui est mort pauvre. Maisd'autres artistes sont venus qui ont tendu la main ? ces infortun?s. Envoici plusieurs, hommes et femmes, dont tout Paris conna?t les figures.Ils sont venus f?ter No?l ? c?t? de leurs orphelins. Et cela fait, env?rit?, le plus pittoresque, le plus joli pensionnat du monde. Jesignale la maison aux ?trangers qui ne la connaissent pas. Elle estouverte ? toutes les sympathies, et c'est, pourrait-on dire, quelquechose--dans notre petit monde de la philanthropie parisienne--qui ?neressemble ? rien?.                                 *                                * *Une id?e spirituelle: celle d'employer le bassin d'un cirque ? uneexposition et ? un concours d'engins de sauvetage.C'est le Nouveau-Cirque qui a eu cette id?e-l?. Le concours s'est ouvertces jours-ci. Il sera clos d?s les premiers jours de janvier. Mais voicivenir la bourrasque de fin d'ann?e, les journ?es terribles qu'absorbel'unique souci de recevoir des ?trennes quand on est jeune, et d'endistribuer, quand on ne l'est plus. Qui de nous aura le temps, durant detelles journ?es, d'aller voir une Exposition, quelle qu'elle soit?Veuillard en fait une, chez Bernheim, qui a beaucoup de succ?s; les?Peintres du Paris moderne? en font une aussi, chez Reitlinger; nousl'avons signal?e, en m?me temps que deux ou trois autres, ? quil'?ch?ance du Nouvel an va faire un tort immense, pendant une semaine aumoins. ?Ce qu'il faut voir?, en ce moment? Des ?talages...Et puis, d?s que sera pass? le cyclone, il faudra, vous le pensez bien,se pr?cipiter vers le spectacle qui va, pendant quelques jours, occupertout Paris: il faudra aller revoir la _Joconde_. Avouons-le: parmi tantd'admirateurs, boulevers?s d'une joie sinc?re, beaucoup, sans doute,verront Monna Lisa pour la premi?re fois. Au Salon Carr?, librementaccessible ? tous, elle ?tait bien un peu n?glig?e. Mais quoi! la voil?qui revient apr?s s'?tre enfuie, et qui nous oblige ? payer pour lavoir. Double prestige, auquel nulle curiosit? ne r?sistera!UN PARISIEN.AGENDA (27 d?cembre 1913-3 janvier 1914).Concours de po?sie.--Le _31 d?cembre_, cl?ture du concours des Jeuxfloraux du Languedoc.Expositions.--Galerie Georges Petit (8, rue de S?ze): la Com?diehumaine. (Cl?ture le _31 d?cembre_.)--Soci?t? internationale de peintureet sculpture. (Cl?ture le _31 d?cembre_.)--Galerie des Artistesmodernes (19, rue Caumartin): exposition de l'Eclectique.--Salons del'Etoile (17, rue de Chateaubriand): oeuvres de Mme MagdeleinePopelin.--Galerie La Bo?tie (64 _bis_, rue La Bo?tie): exposition despeintres du Paris moderne (jusqu'au _14 janvier_).--Galerie MarcelBernheim (2 bis, rue Caumartin): exposition de l'?Art intime?.Conf?rences.--Soci?t? des Conf?rences (184, boulevard Saint-Germain): le7 _janvier_, ? 2 h. 1/2, conf?rence sur _Saint-Simon_ (premi?re de las?rie), par M. Ren? Doumic, de l'Acad?mie fran?aise.--Le 9 _janvier_ ? 2h. 1/2 au mus?e de l'Arm?e (salle d'honneur): conf?rence sur la campagnede 1814, ? Lyon et dans les Alpes, par le commandant Perreau.Les conf?rences de la ?Revue hebdomadaire?, ? la salle du Foyer (34, rueVaneau), interrompues par les vacances de No?l et du Jour de l'An,recommenceront le vendredi 9 _janvier_, ? 5 heures; ? cette date, M.Pierre Lasserre donnera sa premi?re le?on sur Renan. Viendront ensuite:le mardi _13_, ? 5 heures, la _Charte_, par M. Sabatier; le vendredi_16_, ? 5 h., _Renan_ (2e conf?rence), par M. Pierre Lasserre; le mardi_20_, ? 5 h., le _Barreau en 1814_, par M. Charles Chenu; le vendredi_23_, ? 5 h., _Renan_ (3e conf?rence), par M. Pierre Lasserre; le mardi_27_, ? 5 h., _Cuvier_, par M. Ed. Perrier; le vendredi _30_, ? 5 h.,_Renan_ (4e conf?rence), par M. Pierre Lasserre.Matin?e.--Le 27 _d?cembre_, ? la Com?die-Fran?aise, matin?e au profitdes pensions de la Com?die-Fran?aise.Sports.--_Courses de chevaux: 28 et 30 d?cembre, 1er et 4 janvier_Vincennes (trot); le _4 janvier_, Nice (prix de Monte-Carlo).--_Natation_:au Nouveau-Cirque, jusqu'au _4 janvier_, concours de sauvetage etd'appareils de sauvetage.LES LIVRES et LES ?CRIVAINSLE VILLAGE DE L'ONCLE HANSIUn dessinateur alsacien, ?galement c?l?bre mais in?galement go?t? enAllemagne et en France, pr?sidait, il y a quinze jours, au grand d?nerofficiel de litt?rateurs fran?ais. C'?tait au lendemain des incidents deSaverne. Dans l'hommage rendu par la Soci?t? des Gens de lettres ?l'?Oncle Hansi?, alors pr?cis?ment qu'on discutait au Reichstag lesd?finitions du mot ?wackes?, il n'y avait pas une co?ncidence voulue.Mais la co?ncidence existait tout de m?me et elle parut ? ce point?mouvante que, lorsque cet Alsacien, si compl?tement de sa race, dressaavec quelque gaucherie sa puissante silhouette--la silhouette de l'amiFritz--pour nous parler de l'Alsace, un frisson passa dans la salle dubanquet o? s'?tait fait aussit?t un silence de cath?drale. Hansi,cependant, nous parlait avec la bonhomie de son accent guttural,tra?nant et appuy?. Il nous disait, en souriant, que nous ?tions, cesoir-l?, pr?sid?s par un wackes et m?me par un ?oberwackes? (un survoyoud'Alsace) comme on l'appelait l?-bas. Mais l'esprit de Hansi est un deces vieux vins de France qui r?chauffent l'?me en mouillant les yeux. Etquand il parle, quand il ?crit ou quand il dessine, le rude et simple etfin bonhomme de Colmar reste le m?me, doux et redoutable, avec cethumour grave qui vous donne une envie de pleurer...Hansi, ces derniers jours, n'?tait point d'ailleurs venu en Franceuniquement pour pr?sider un d?ner de gens de lettres amis. Il avait ?t?mand? ? Paris pour surveiller l'?dition de son nouvel album: _Monvillage_ (1) qui ajoute ? son _Histoire d'Alsace_ un admirable chapitrecontemporain.Le village de l'oncle Hansi se trouve ?non loin de la grande route, duc?t? de Wissembourg ou de Niederbronn?. Vous vous arr?tez ? quelquepetite station fleurie. Devant vous, au bout d'un ?troit chemin bord?d'arbres fruitiers, un vieux clocher pointu s'?lance au-dessus des bl?so? perce la dentelle des houblons. Et voici des toits qui fument, unepetite place o? l'arbre de la libert? verdit encore, une maison d'?coleavec son nid de cigogne et son beffroi... Voici des fillettes avec leurspetites jupes gaies, rouges ou bleues, des jeunes filles ?dont la calmebeaut? est couronn?e d'un large ruban noir?. Voici de grands jeunes gensau v?tement s?v?re relev? par la vive note rouge du gilet, et voici desvieux avec, encore, l'ample redingote et le tricorne. Voici les fianc?squi se prom?nent, mains unies, les anciens qui causent sur leur porte.L'air est plein de chants d'oiseaux et de chansons d'enfants. Ne voussemble-t-il pas que vivre en ce joli village serait tout le bonheurhumain? Oui,... oh! oui... si, tout en haut, au bout de la rue,n'apparaissait la silhouette pesante et casqu?e du gendarme...Dans le village de l'oncle Hansi, il y a un beau pr? o? gar?onnets etfillettes jouent ? la guerre et r?guli?rement ?mettent en fuite l'ennemitoujours repr?sent? par les dix enfants du gendarme prussien?.Dans le village de l'oncle Hansi, il y a deux ma?tres d'?cole: l'un, lep?re Vettei est un vieux d'avant la guerre, un vieux en tricorne et enl?vite. Tout le monde l'aime, il assiste ? tous les bapt?mes, ? tous lesmariages et il continue--en cachette--d'apprendre le fran?ais aux petitsenfants. L'autre ma?tre, son adjoint, est un jeune instituteur allemanden veston de drap vert, et qui a toujours ? la main une baguetteimpitoyable... Et devant l'?cole, il y a une place o? les petits ?l?vestirent au sort, avec une plume dans un livre ferm?, les petits soldatsde papier imprim?s ? Epinal. Quelle raillerie si, par malheur, on gagneun soldat prussien!...(1) Edition Fleury, 10 fr.Dans le village de l'oncle Hansi, il vient des touristes allemands, enpetit chapeau ? plumes et tout habill?s de vert, du vert moutarde auvert ?pinard, toutes les nuances du vert, sauf le vert esp?rance. Ilsd?ballent, ? l'auberge, des saucisses, des marmelades, et r?clament unegrande cruche de bi?re pour monsieur et une petite pour le reste de lafamille... Et il y a aussi, parfois, des touristes fran?ais, viteentour?s, et qui devraient revenir plus souvent.Dans le village de l'oncle Hansi, il y a trois v?t?rans de l'anciennearm?e fran?aise. C'est d'abord le cuirassier Schimmel qui a charg? ?Morsbronn. ?Ce jour-l?, d?fendant sa terre et son foyer, il a d? fairepeur ? la mort elle-m?me.? Les deux autres sont l'ex-canonnier ? chevalGeorges Becker et l'ancien sergent de voltigeurs Martin Spohr. Toustrois vont ensemble ? la messe avec leurs longues redingotes, pareillescomme un uniforme, sur lequel est ?pingle le ruban du souvenir, stri? dedeuil et d'esp?rance. ?Ils ne parlent gu?re pour compenser tous les motsinutiles que l'on dit ailleurs.?Dans le village de l'oncle Hansi, il y a chaque ann?e deux f?tes: l'une,qui ne compte pas, la f?te de l'Empire; et l'autre qui est une grandejoie, la f?te patronale, le ?Messti?. Ce jour-l?, c'est, partout, uneactive confection de tartes et de g?teaux d'Alsace. Ce jour-l?, legendarme prussien inspecte la baraque aux pains d'?pice pour voir si onn'y expose pas de mirlitons tricolores... Ah! il y a une troisi?me f?teque j'oubliais, la f?te du 14 juillet. Celle-ci, il est vrai, on lac?l?bre hors du village, ? Nancy. Mais on y pense beaucoup au village etil y a toujours des gens de l'endroit, des heureux, des envi?s qui s'envont assister ? la belle revue fran?aise de la ?division de fer?.Dans le village de l'oncle Hansi, il y a un veilleur de nuit, le p?reSpinner, un ancien artilleur de la garde qui, aujourd'hui encore, pourfaire sa ronde, s'enveloppe dans le vieux manteau d'ordonnance (ces?toffes fran?aises sont inusables). Il porte une vieille hallebarde, unegrosse lanterne et une corne pour sonner les incendies. Autrefois, lep?re Spinner ?tait un homme tr?s sobre. Mais il a pris une singuli?rehabitude: chaque fois qu'un gros Zeppelin a subi un de ces accidents?normes qui ne co?tent la vie ? personne, le veilleur entre ? l'aubergeet se fait servir un demi-litre de vin. Et c'est ainsi que le p?reSpinner est devenu ivrogne.Le village de l'oncle Hansi est un joli village dont les maisons riantescachent bien des souffrances. Il est l'image de l'Alsace enti?re ettoute l'Alsace, comme un grand coeur, palpite dans les moindres d?tailsde cette admirable page qui cl?t l'album:?... Mon village est endormi; les petits enfants reposent depuislongtemps et r?vent du prochain arbre de No?l, ou de la revue de Nancy.Le clocher tout noir se d?coupe sur le grand ciel ?toile; au loins'?tend le champ de bataille immense et myst?rieux et les pierresblanches, sous lesquelles reposent tant de h?ros, y mettent quelquesp?les lueurs. La grande rue est silencieuse; m?me l'aga?ant phonographedu gendarme prussien a cess? de moudre ses airs patriotiques. Un chienaboie. Un autre, plus loin, lui r?pond. Dans les jardinets qui bordentla route, les lucioles brillent et jouent ?? imiter les ?toiles?. Auloin, un coup sourd ?clate dans l'air; c'est le canon de Bitche, o?d'incessantes manoeuvres nocturnes tiennent la garnison en ?veil...Quelquefois une d?tonation plus sourde, plus lointaine encore, lui fait?cho; elle vient de l'autre c?t? de la fronti?re... D'une ruelled?bouche une petite lumi?re vacillante et la voix f?l?e du veilleur denuit ?gr?ne lentement son appel. Une seule fen?tre est ?clair?e: c'estcelle du p?re Vetter. On lui a rapport? de Nancy quelques journaux, deces journaux interdits en Alsace parce qu'ils feraient aimer la France.Autour de la lampe, quelques paysans sont r?unis, et le vieilinstituteur traduit, explique. Il parle de l'arm?e fran?aise, desaviateurs, des peuples des Balkans qui ont enfin retrouv? leur patrie.Et, dans la nuit, sa lampe est la seule lumi?re qui brille dans monvillage...?L'?me d'Erckmann et de Chatrian n'est point morte. Elle vit, ardente,irrit?e, rajeunie, dans la v?rit? expressive et tr?s artiste de cespages d'album et dans la saveur simple de ce texte que fleuronnentsymboliquement des petits soldats d'Epinal.ALBERIC CAHUET.LE V?LO TORPILLEOn conna?t la th?orie de l'entra?nement ? bicyclette. Elle repose sur cefait qu'un objet en mouvement un peu rapide (cycliste, voitureautomobile, ?cran, etc.) laisse derri?re lui un sillage, une zone o? lapression de l'air se trouve l?g?rement r?duite, pendant un instant tr?scourt. Si un autre objet, marchant ? la m?me vitesse que le premier, setrouve dans le sillage en question, il n'?prouvera donc qu'uner?sistance r?duite et pourra maintenir sa vitesse au prix d'un travailsensiblement plus faible. Il r?sulte de l? qu'? travail ?gal un cyclisteavec entra?neur marchera beaucoup plus vite qu'un cycliste sansentra?neur; c'est ainsi que le record de l'heure ? bicyclette avecentra?neur d?passe actuellement 100 kilom?tres tandis qu'il d?passe ?peine 43 kilom?tres sans entra?neur.Dans ces conditions, on s'est depuis longtemps demand? si l'on nepourrait pas augmenter la vitesse du cycliste en munissant sa machined'un ?cran ou coupe-vent qui r?duirait pour lui la r?sistance de l'air.Au premier abord, ce proc?d? rappelle quelque peu celui de Gribouilledisposant ? l'avant de sa bicyclette un aimant puissant charg? d'attirercette derni?re, mais le proc?d? est, en r?alit?, moins absurde qu'iln'en a l'air. Il suffit en effet de construire un ?cran qui ?prouve dela part de l'air une r?sistance moins grande que le cycliste lui-m?me.Or, en th?orie, rien n'est plus facile et, d?s 1892 ou 1893, on vendaitchez les fabricants d'accessoires un coupe-vent en mica que l'on fixaitau guidon de la bicyclette et qui avait pour mission _d'abriter_ lecycliste.Ce coupe-vent n'a donn? au reste aucun r?sultat parce que, d'une part,il ?tait insuffisamment rigide, et se d?formait en marche et, d'autrepart, il donnait naissance ? des remous arri?re enti?rement nuisibles.Les fabricants de coupe-vent pour bicyclette firent donc rapidementfaillite et le coupe-vent individuel fut enterr? pour une vingtained'ann?es.La question n'?tait cependant pas insoluble et un jeune ing?nieur ?peine sorti du r?giment vient de la reprendre avec un succ?s complet.Il lui a suffi de rem?dier aux deux inconv?nients signal?s enconstruisant un coupe-vent ind?formable derri?re lequel un prolongementconvenablement trac? emp?che la formation de remous nuisibles. En fait,le coupe-vent de jadis est devenu une sorte de gros oeuf allong? danslequel le cycliste est enferm? et qui marche le gros bout en avant.Une pareille forme ?tonne au premier abord, et cependant c'est celle quele calcul et l'exp?rience s'accordent pour proclamer la meilleure.C'est celle du projectile de moindre r?sistance de d'Alembert, dePiobert et de Dreyse. C'est celle des poissons et des oiseaux model?spar une longue s?rie de si?cles; c'est celle enfin des ailes de nosa?roplanes modernes. En un mot, c'est la forme en toupie avec prouecamuse, et poupe effil?e.La difficult? ?tait jadis fort grande de construire avec une l?g?ret?suffisante un capot de ce genre. Mais cette difficult? a disparu pournos constructeurs d'a?roplanes.Imaginez, en effet, une carcasse en bois courb? extr?mement rigide dontle profil est celui d'un oeuf ? petit bout pointu; l'avant est recouvertde feuilles transparentes de cellulo?d et le reste d'une ?toffeparfaitement lisse et fortement tendue.Le tout est fix? ? la bicyclette par une armature en tubes d'acier, nelaissant visibles et expos?s ? la r?sistance de l'air que les pieds etles tibias du cycliste.Tel est le _v?lo torpille_ Etienne Bunau-Varilla.[Illustration: Le v?lo torpille de M. Bunau-Varilla, vu ?l'arr?t (entr'ouvert) et en course.][Illustration: Projectiles.]Cet appareil, parfaitement con?u au point de vue th?orique et dont laforme tient le milieu entre le projectile de Piobert et celui de Dreyse,para?t donner au point de vue pratique des r?sultats tout ? faitremarquables. C'est ainsi que le coureur Berthet a pu abaisser ? uneminute deux secondes quatre cinqui?mes le record de dur?e du kilom?trequi ?tait jusqu'ici d'une minute dix secondes trois cinqui?mes,c'est-?-dire qu'il a pu passer de la vitesse de 50 kil. 992 ? l'heure ?la vitesse de 57 kil. 325. Il est donc arriv? ? ce r?sultat quelque peuparadoxal au premier abord d'augmenter sa vitesse horaire de pr?s de 5kil. 1/2 en ajoutant ? sa machine une carrosserie dont le poids n'estpas n?gligeable; ajoutons que du m?me coup il s'est mis ? l'abri de lapluie, du soleil et de la poussi?re.SAUVEROCHE.DOCUMENTS et INFORMATIONSLE FROMAGE DE SAINT-MARCELLIN.La ?tomme? de Saint-Marcellin qui ne fut pendant longtemps qu'un fromagelocal, si pareille expression peut ?tre employ?e, est aujourd'huiappr?ci?e dans la France enti?re o?, depuis quelques ann?es surtout,elle a conquis une place honorable en m?me temps que des d?bouch?srelativement importants. Son ?coulement commercial ?tant facile, sonrayon de fabrication s'est rapidement ?tendu, si bien qu'? l'heureactuelle on trouve sur les march?s beaucoup de Saint-Marcellin qui n'ontpas ?t? fabriqu?s avec le lait de ch?vre r?colt? dans les p?turagesescarp?s de Saint-V?rand, de Murinais, de Ch?nevi?res ou des communeslimitrophes. L'accueil hostile que l'id?e des d?limitations agricoles arencontr? presque partout rend inacceptable _a priori_ l'hypoth?se d'uner?glementation ayant pour but d'emp?cher les commer?ants de se procurer? leur convenance les tommes dont ils ont besoin pour leur client?le.Par contre, il serait absolument ?quitable de ne pas laisser mettre envente sous le nom de ?tomme de Saint-Marcellin? des produits qui, aulieu d'?tre exclusivement fabriqu?s avec du lait de ch?vre, le sont avecun m?lange de laits diff?rents dans lequel le lait de vache entresouvent pour une tr?s forte proportion.Les producteurs int?ress?s viennent de soumettre leurs dol?ances auminist?re de l'Agriculture. Ils demandent qu'il soit d?sormais d?fendude vendre pour du Saint-Marcellin des tommes dans la compositiondesquelles le lait de ch?vre n'a pas exclusivement figur?; dans le cascontraire, la d?nomination de Saint-Marcellin devrait ?trerigoureusement interdite et remplac?e par celle de ?Saint-Marcellinimitation?. Cette r?clamation sera certainement admise, lesconsommateurs ayant le droit absolu de savoir tr?s exactement ? quois'en tenir sur la nature des fromages qu'ils ach?tent.UNE CAUSE CURIEUSE D'INTOXICATION SATURNINE.C'est chose bien connue de tous que l'on peut garder dans le corps desballes ou du plomb de chasse, pendant des ann?es, pendant toute sa viem?me, sans inconv?nient. En bien des cas le chirurgien pr?f?re laisserla balle et les plombs, l? o? ils sont, dans l'?paisseur des muscles, dumoment o? il n'y a pas n?cessit? absolue d'aller les chercher.Il arrive pourtant que le plomb, ? la longue, d?termine des effetsf?cheux. Le docteur Roux, de Brignoles, a observ? un cas de ce genre. Uncolonial, qui a re?u, il y a vingt ans, une balle de revolver, est prisd'accidents divers: naus?es, constipation opini?tre, coliques, an?mie:bien que le lis?r? gingival symptomatique manque, il croit avoir lacolique de plomb, et l'attribue ? sa balle dont il d?sire ?tred?barrass?.Il en est fait ainsi, et la gu?rison est parfaite. Ce qui est curieux,c'est le temps que la balle a mis ? devenir intoxicante. Le fait estd'ailleurs connu. Mais on ne l'explique pas. Faut-il supposer quelquealt?ration du plomb s'op?rant ? la longue ? l'humidit? et ? la chaleur?D'autre part, on voit les accidents saturnins se produire aussi au boutd'un temps tr?s court, un an ou deux seulement. En tout cas il fautqu'on sache que le plomb sous la peau expose au saturnisme, m?me s'ilest en quantit? tr?s faible: deux ou trois grains.LA POPULATION DE LA FRANCE.Pendant le premier semestre de 1913, l'exc?dent des naissances sur lesd?c?s n'a ?t? que de 11.004 unit?s, au lieu de 14.712 pendant les sixpremiers mois de l'ann?e pr?c?dente.Cette diminution s'est produite malgr? un rel?vement assez notable dunombre des naissances au cours du semestre: 387.512 naissances au lieude 378.807 pendant la p?riode correspondante de 1912.Mais cet accroissement de 8.705 naissances n'a pas suffi ? compenserl'augmentation du nombre des d?c?s, 376.508 au lieu de 364.635, soit11.873 d?c?s de plus.Le nombre des mariages, 154.069, est en recul sur celui du 1er semestre1912, 158.861, mais reste encore sup?rieur ? celui du semestrecorrespondant de 1911, 153.931.Le nombre des divorces marque un nouvel accroissement: 7.550 au lieu de6.932.LE NOMBRE DES ?TOILES.On a souvent discut? sur le nombre probable des ?toiles, et les diverschiffres avanc?s ne sauraient avoir qu'une valeur assez relative, commele prouvent les ?carts consid?rables que pr?sentent les calculs desastronomes. Apr?s beaucoup d'autres, un astronome anglais, M. Tucker, a?tudi? cette troublante question, et il arrive ? des conclusionsint?ressantes.Le nombre des ?toiles qu'on peut voir ? l'oeil nu au-dessus de l'horizonne d?passe gu?re 2.000, mais on s'accorde ? admettre qu'il existeenviron 40 millions d'?toiles visibles dans les instruments, soit unemoyenne de mille ?toiles par degr? carr? de la vo?te c?leste. Ces?toiles varient de la grandeur 1 ? la grandeur 16. Si l'on ajoute les?toiles des 17e, 18e et 19e grandeur, qui, tout en ?tant invisibles,impressionnent la plaque photographique, on arrive ? 100 millions.Quant aux ?toiles en croissance qui ne sont pas encore incandescentes,ou aux ?toiles en d?cadence qui sont refroidies, on ne poss?de aucunebase pour en supputer le nombre.Il semble en tout cas que le total de 1.000 millions, parfois cit?, soitexag?r?.LES VACCINATIONS ANTIRABIQUES EN 1912.M. Viala, pr?parateur ? l'Institut Pasteur, vient de faire conna?tre lesr?sultats des vaccinations antirabiques pratiqu?es ? Paris en 1912.On a trait? 395 personnes dont 59 mordues ? la t?te, 191 aux mains, 145aux membres. Aucun d?c?s n'est survenu.Sur ce nombre, la France a envoy? 377 sujets, le Luxembourg 9, le Maroc3, la Roumanie 2, l'Espagne, la Su?de, les Etats-Unis, le Dahomey 1.Comme ? l'ordinaire, le d?partement de la Seine tient la t?te pour lenombre de personnes mordues: 118. Viennent ensuite: Somme, 47;Seine-et-Oise, 35; Puy-de-D?me, 15; Oise, 9; Seine-Inf?rieure, 8;Cantal, Corr?ze, Haute-Garonne, Vienne, 7 etc., etc.LES TH??TRESTrois jours avant la repr?sentation de la _Belle Aventure_, dont nousparlons plus haut, M. Georges Berr faisait repr?senter au th??tre Feminaune com?die-vaudeville en quatre actes, _Un jeune homme qui se tue_,dont le point de d?part est assez analogue, puisque le premier acte del'une et l'autre pi?ce s'ach?ve sur l'enl?vement d'une mari?e, en robeblanche et fleurs d'oranger, le matin de ses noces. Mais les deuxouvrages n'ont pas d'autre point de ressemblance. _Un jeune homme qui setue_ n'a d'ailleurs rien de fun?bre, ainsi que le titre l'aurait pufaire craindre; c'est une pi?ce ing?nieuse, aimable, honn?te, trait?eavec beaucoup de gr?ce et d'esprit et jou?e avec une fantaisie de bonaloi par Mmes Bertiny et Jane Danjou, et par MM. Polin, Claudius,Alerme.Deux manifestations th??trales qui ont eu lieu cette semaine m?ritentd'?tre signal?es: ce fut d'abord le premier spectacle de ?la Soci?t?id?aliste? ? la salle Villiers, pr?sid? par M. Camille Flammarion; il?tait compos? de la _Mort de Tintagiles_, de M. Maurice Maeterlinck, dusixi?me acte de la _Furie_ de M. Jules Bois, et de _Philista_, un acteen vers de M. Georges Battanchon; les promoteurs de la Soci?t? id?alisteont obtenu l? le plus complet succ?s.Sur la sc?ne du th??tre L?on-Poirier, Mme Valentine de Saint-Point, dansun enveloppement de musiques, de lumi?res et de parfums, a donn? unes?ance de sa m?tachorie ou ?danses id?istes? proc?dant de ses po?mes;sans en comprendre absolument la th?orie on en a go?t? le charmebizarre.M. ARISTIDE BRIAND A SAINT-?TIENNE_L'actualit? de la semaine est incontestablement le discours prononc? ?Saint-Etienne par M. Aristide Briand. Nous publions en premi?re page uninstantan? du grand orateur,--clich? remarquable, malgr? le ?flou? del'agrandissement, par la ressemblance et l'expression. Notre envoy?sp?cial Gustave Babin, qui ?tait au nombre des auditeurs, nous donne icila physionomie de cette importante manifestation_.Dimanche dernier, M. Aristide Briand, ancien pr?sident du Conseil, ?tait? Saint-Etienne, au milieu de ses ?lecteurs fid?les. Il venait leur dire?dans une sorte de causerie, un compte rendu en famille?--ce fut sonexpression--ce qu'il a fait, pourquoi il l'a fait; enfin leur exposer?le v?ritable caract?re de sa politique?. Ces comptes rendus de mandatsvont ?tre, ? l'approche des ?lections, la grosse pr?occupation desd?put?s sortants, et, pour quelques-uns d'entre eux, sans doute, unsujet de grand trouble et d'embarras cuisant. Celui-ci, par-dessus lesquinze cents t?tes tendues vers l'orateur irr?sistible, bien au del? desmurs de cette salle de divertissements o? se pressait l'auditoire leplus disciplin?, le plus attentif que j'aie vu, allait ?veiller dans lepays entier--plus loin encore--de lointains et profonds ?chos. Enr?alit?, M. Aristide Briand vient de prononcer le discours le plusimportant, le plus d?cisif, peut-?tre, de sa carri?re politique. Descirconstances qu'il n'a point provoqu?es ont donn? ? sa parole la port?ed'un acte courageux, l'ont dress?, comme un chef conscient de son devoiret des risques qu'il encourt, ? la t?te de son parti, en face d'unautre.Quelques jours auparavant, dans un banquet de radicaux-socialistes, M.Joseph Caillaux, ministre des Finances dans le nouveau cabinet,rappelait ? ses commensaux, afin de stimuler leur vigilance autour deslibert?s publiques, des souvenirs de l'histoire de Rome:?Quand le z?le des citoyens pour la R?publique, disait-il, eut faitplace ? la complaisance de la foule pour les endormeurs qui n'?taientd'aucun parti parce qu'ils voulaient les subjuguer tous, quand lesluttes de principes eurent ?t? remplac?es par des conflits de personneset de client?le, la R?publique romaine ne fut plus qu'un grand corpssans ?me.?M. Aristide Briand s'?tait senti vis?. Ces ?endormeurs qui...? Iln'avait pu douter qu'on n'e?t voulu le d?signer comme le plus dangereuxd'entre eux. Une explication sans cordialit?, dont les journaux ontrecueilli les d?tails, avait eu lieu dans les couloirs du Palais-Bourbonentre les deux hommes politiques. M. Aristide Briand n'avait pasdissimul? ? son adversaire sa r?solution arr?t?e de ne pas demeurer sousle coup d'une attaque assez insidieuse.--A votre aise! avait r?pondu M. Caillaux.M. Aristide Briand a us? sans se piquer de discr?tion de la permissionainsi octroy?e. Car il n'est gu?re d'hommes que l'instinct de luttesoutienne et exalte autant que lui.Toutefois, pas plus que M. Caillaux ne l'avait nomm? au banquet deParis, M. Briand n'a prononc? ? la table de Saint-Etienne le nom del'adversaire. Pas une seule fois. C'est ?un r?publicain bien ?veill?;c'est ?lui?; c'est ?le m?me?. Et M. Caillaux ayant d?clar? la guerre aux?endormeurs?, M. Aristide Briand r?pond en stigmatisant ?lesploutocrates d?magogues?.D'ailleurs, cet esprit si large, si libre, si parfaitement inapte ? lahaine, ne pouvait s'attarder bien longtemps sur le terrain despersonnalit?s. Et quand il eut rappel? son r?le dans le pass?, retrac?la droite ligne qu'il s'appliqua toujours ? suivre entre la r?volutionet la r?action, les rancunes qu'il s'attira d'un c?t?, la d?fiance qu'ilinspira de l'autre; quand il eut montr? qu'il est toujours demeur? lem?me homme en face des m?mes adversaires, il aborda les hautes r?gionsde la politique g?n?rale, envisageant l'une apr?s l'autre, de son clairregard, les graves pr?occupations de l'heure, revendiquant avec unetranquille vaillance sa part de responsabilit?s dans les actes degouvernement qu'on a voulu lui imputer ? crime et pr?conisant enfin unepolitique d'id?es, large, g?n?reuse, tol?rante, qui ?mette legouvernement au service de tous les citoyens?.Le souci qui nous a toujours guid?s, dans ce journal, de donner le moinsde place possible ? ce qui divise, et notre cadre m?me ne nouspermettent pas de suivre, en ses d?veloppements, le persuasif orateur.Et puis, il faut l'avoir entendu, il faut avoir m?l? ses bravos et sesvivats aux applaudissements et aux acclamations qui entrecoup?rent cette?mouvante harangue, pour comprendre l'impression profonde qu'elleproduisit; il faut avoir ?t? t?moin de l'ovation triomphale qui salua sap?roraison pour sentir tout l'invincible sortil?ge de ce verbeincomparable, de cette voix fr?missante, tour ? tour grave, enfi?vr?e,qui s'indigne, s'attriste, s'enflamme, qui caresse et cingle, chantecomme la brise marine dans les m?tures et tonne comme l'orage; de cesp?riodes limpides, harmonieuses, que souligne un geste toujours large etexpressif.[Illustration: Un curieux document suppl?mentaire sur les suites desincidents de Saverne: l'empereur Guillaume quitte brusquement, au milieud'une conversation dans le parc de Donaueschingen, le chancelier del'empire, M. de Bethmann-Hollweg et le comte de Wedel, statthalterd'Alsace-Lorraine.]Mais cela, c'est pour l'art. Et la salle du ?skating de Bizillon?n'enfermait pas beaucoup de dilettantes. On nous a dit, ? Saint-Etienne,que des curieux, des amateurs de sensations r?serv?es avaient offertcent, deux cents francs m?me de cartes que les ?militants? de laF?d?ration r?publicaine socialiste de la Loire payaient quatre francs.Ces d?licats se fussent volontiers, par surcro?t, r?sign?s auxd?mocratiques plats froids. On d?clina, bien entendu, leurs offresg?n?reuses...Il ne demeura donc qu'un auditoire de braves gens devant lesquels unhonn?te homme, leur ?lu, s'expliqua, parlant pour le pays entier. Et si,consciemment ou non, ils furent sensibles ? la magie de son prestigieuxtalent, ce qui les dressa, ?mus au fond du coeur, ? la p?roraison de soninoubliable discours, ? la vision ?voqu?e d'une R?publique et d'uneFrance unies en ?une seule personne radieuse? et accomplissant leursdestin?es sous ?un gouvernement de paix dans l'ordre, de s?curit? danstoujours plus de libert? et de justice sociale?, ce qui les transportad'enthousiasme, c'est la foi qui les p?n?trait qu'ils avaient devant euxl'homme capable d'avancer l'heure de cet avenir enchant? qu'il leurmontrait comme une terre promise, c'est la confiance que leur inspiraitcette ?me droite et forte ? la hauteur de toutes les grandes t?ches.GUSTAVE BABIN.MAUVAISE HUMEUR IMP?RIALEVoici, apr?s les photographies que nous avons publi?es dans notre num?rodu 13 d?cembre, un bien curieux instantan?, qui compl?te notredocumentation sur les entretiens de Donaueschingen, d'o? sortirent lessanctions des incidents de Saverne. C'est encore dans le parc du ch?teauqu'a ?t? pris ce clich?: l'empereur, qui conversait avec le chancelier,M. de Bethmann-Hollweg, et le comte de Wedel, statthalterd'Alsace-Lorraine, vient de les quitter brusquement, dans un acc?sd'impatience, et s'?loigne d'un pas rapide, laissant l? sesinterlocuteurs, dont l'attitude semble t?moigner de quelque g?ne...Quelle fut la cause de la mauvaise humeur imp?riale? A d?faut derenseignements sur ce point, l'instantan? publi? ici t?moigne que ler?glement de l'affaire de Saverne n'alla pas sans difficult?. Lecorrespondant qui nous l'envoie ajoute que la reproduction en a ?t?interdite, par ordre de la police, en Allemagne.FUN?RAILLES DU CARDINAL RAMPOLLA[Illustration: Les fun?railles du cardinal Rampolla dans une chapelle dela basilique de Saint-Pierre.--_Phot. G. Felici._]Les fun?railles du cardinal Rampolla ont ?t? c?l?br?es ? Rome, levendredi de la semaine pass?e, avec toute la solennit? due ? un princede l'Eglise. C'est dans la basilique de Saint-Pierre, dont il ?taitarchipr?tre, qu'a eu lieu le service fun?bre; quatorze cardinaux,plusieurs ?v?ques, de nombreuses d?l?gations des s?minaires, desinstituts et des coll?ges catholiques y assistaient, au milieu d'unegrande affluence. L'absoute a ?t? donn?e, apr?s la messe, par lecardinal Vincenzo Vannutelli, doyen du Sacr?-Coll?ge.[Bande dessin?e: LES ORIGINES DU TANGO par Henriot.][Illustration: Suppl?ment La Petite Illustration:]End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of L'Illustration, No. 3696, 27 D?cembre1913, by Various*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK L'ILLLUSTRATION, NO. 3696, 27 D?CEMBRE 1913 ******** This file should be named 33518-8.txt or 33518-8.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/3/5/1/33518/Produced by Jeroen Hellingman and R?nald L?vesqueUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of Eben Holden, by Irving BachellerThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almostno restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-useit under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with thiseBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: Eben Holden       A Tale of the North CountryAuthor: Irving BachellerRelease Date: December 1, 2001 [EBook #2799]Last Updated: July 14, 2014Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EBEN HOLDEN ***Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer, Martin Robb, and David WidgerEBEN HOLDEN A TALE OF THE NORTH COUNTRYBy Irving BachellerPREFACEEarly in the last century the hardy wood-choppers began to come west,out of Vermont. They founded their homes in the Adirondack wildernessesand cleared their rough acres with the axe and the charcoal pit. Afteryears of toil in a rigorous climate they left their sons little besidesa stumpy farm and a coon-skin overcoat. Far from the centres of lifetheir amusements, their humours, their religion, their folk lore,their views of things had in them the flavour of the timber lands, thesimplicity of childhood. Every son was nurtured in the love of honourand of industry, and the hope of sometime being president. It is to befeared this latter thing and the love of right living, for its own sake,were more in their thoughts than the immortal crown that had been theinspiration of their fathers. Leaving the farm for the more promisinglife of the big city they were as men born anew, and their secondinfancy was like that of Hercules. They had the strength of manhood,the tireless energy of children and some hope of the highest things.The pageant of the big town--its novelty, its promise, its art, itsactivity--quickened their highest powers, put them to their best effort.And in all great enterprises they became the pathfinders, like theirfathers in the primeval forest.This book has grown out of such enforced leisure as one may find in abusy life. Chapters begun in the publicity of a Pullman car have beenfinished in the cheerless solitude of a hotel chamber. Some havehad their beginning in a sleepless night and their end in a day ofbronchitis. A certain pious farmer in the north country when, likeAgricola, he was about to die, requested the doubtful glory of thisepitaph: 'He was a poor sinner, but he done his best' Save for the factthat I am an excellent sinner, in a literary sense, the words may standfor all the apology I have to make.The characters were mostly men and women I have known and who leftwith me a love of my kind that even a wide experience with knavery andmisfortune has never dissipated. For my knowledge of Mr Greeley Iam chiefly indebted to David P. Rhoades, his publisher, to PhilipFitzpatrick, his pressman, to the files of the Tribune and to manybooks.IRVING BACHELLER New York City, 7 April 1900BOOK ONEChapter IIf all the people that ever went west that expedition was the mostremarkable.A small boy in a big basket on the back of a jolly old man, who carrieda cane in one hand, a rifle in the other; a black dog serving as scout,skirmisher and rear guard--that was the size of it. They were thesurvivors of a ruined home in the north of Vermont, and were travellingfar into the valley of the St Lawrence, but with no particulardestination.Midsummer had passed them in their journey; their clothes were coveredwith dust; their faces browning in the hot sun. It was a very small boythat sat inside the basket and clung to the rim, his tow head shaking asthe old man walked. He saw wonderful things, day after day, looking downat the green fields or peering into the gloomy reaches of the wood; andhe talked about them.'Uncle Eb--is that where the swifts are?' he would ask often; and theold man would answer, 'No; they ain't real sassy this time o' year. Theylay 'round in the deep dingles every day.'Then the small voice would sing idly or prattle with an imaginary beingthat had a habit of peeking over the edge of the basket or would shout agreeting to some bird or butterfly and ask finally: 'Tired, Uncle Eb?'Sometimes the old gentleman would say 'not very', and keep on, lookingthoughtfully at the ground. Then, again, he would stop and mop his baldhead with a big red handkerchief and say, a little tremor of irritationin his voice: 'Tired! who wouldn't be tired with a big elephant like youon his back all day? I'd be 'shamed o' myself t' set there an' let anold man carry me from Dan to Beersheba. Git out now an' shake yer legs.'I was the small boy and I remember it was always a great relief to getout of the basket, and having run ahead, to lie in the grass among thewild flowers, and jump up at him as he came along.Uncle Eb had been working for my father five years before I was born. Hewas not a strong man and had never been able to carry the wide swath ofthe other help in the fields, but we all loved him for his kindness andhis knack of story-telling. He was a bachelor who came over the mountainfrom Pleasant Valley, a little bundle of clothes on his shoulder, andbringing a name that enriched the nomenclature of our neighbourhood. Itwas Eben Holden.He had a cheerful temper and an imagination that was a very wildernessof oddities. Bears and panthers growled and were very terrible in thatstrange country. He had invented an animal more treacherous than anyin the woods, and he called it a swift. 'Sumthin' like a panther', hedescribed the look of it: a fearsome creature that lay in the edge ofthe woods at sundown and made a noise like a woman crying, to lure theunwary. It would light one's eye with fear to hear Uncle Eb lift hisvoice in the cry of the swift. Many a time in the twilight when the bayof a hound or some far cry came faintly through the wooded hills, Ihave seen him lift his hand and bid us hark. And when we had listeneda moment, our eyes wide with wonder, he would turn and say in a low,half-whispered tone: ''S a swift' I suppose we needed more the fear ofGod, but the young children of the pioneer needed also the fear of thewoods or they would have strayed to their death in them.A big bass viol, taller than himself, had long been the solace of hisSundays. After he had shaved--a ceremony so solemn that it seemed a riteof his religion--that sacred viol was uncovered. He carried it sometimesto the back piazza and sometimes to the barn, where the horses shook andtrembled at the roaring thunder of the strings. When he began playingwe children had to get well out of the way, and keep our distance. Iremember now the look of him, then--his thin face, his soft black eyes,his long nose, the suit of broadcloth, the stock and standing collarand, above all, the solemnity in his manner when that big devil of athing was leaning on his breast.As to his playing I have never heard a more fearful sound in any time ofpeace or one less creditable to a Christian. Weekdays he was addicted tothe milder sin of the flute and, after chores, if there were no one totalk with him, he would sit long and pour his soul into that magic barof boxwood.Uncle Eb had another great accomplishment. He was what they call in thenorth country 'a natural cooner'. After nightfall, when the corn wasripening, he spoke in a whisper and had his ear cocked for coons. But heloved all kinds of good fun.So this man had a boy in his heart and a boy in his basket that eveningwe left the old house. My father and mother and older brother had beendrowned in the lake, where they had gone for a day of pleasure. I hadthen a small understanding of my loss, hat I have learned since thatthe farm was not worth the mortgage and that everything had to be sold.Uncle Eb and I--a little lad, a very little lad of six--were all thatwas left of what had been in that home. Some were for sending me to thecounty house; but they decided, finally, to turn me over to a dissoluteuncle, with some allowance for my keep. Therein Uncle Eb was tobe reckoned with. He had set his heart on keeping me, but he was afarm-hand without any home or visible property and not, therefore, inthe mind of the authorities, a proper guardian. He had me with him inthe old house, and the very night he heard they were coming after me inthe morning, we started on our journey. I remember he was a long timetying packages of bread and butter and tea and boiled eggs to the rimof the basket, so that they hung on the outside. Then he put a woollenshawl and an oilcloth blanket on the bottom, pulled the straps over hisshoulders and buckled them, standing before the looking-glass, and, hangput on my cap and coat, stood me on the table, and stooped so that Icould climb into the basket--a pack basket, that he had used in hunting,the top a little smaller than the bottom. Once in, I could standcomfortably or sit facing sideways, my back and knees wedged from portto starboard. With me in my place he blew out the lantern and groped hisway to the road, his cane in one hand, his rifle in the other. Fred, ourold dog--a black shepherd, with tawny points--came after us. UncleEb scolded him and tried to send him back, but I pleaded for the poorcreature and that settled it, he was one of our party.'Dunno how we'll feed him,' said Uncle Eb. 'Our own mouths are bigenough t' take all we can carry, but I hain' no heart t' leave 'im all'lone there.'I was old for my age, they tell me, and had a serious look and a wiseway of talking, for a boy so young; but I had no notion of what laybefore or behind us.'Now, boy, take a good look at the old house,' I remember he whisperedto me at the gate that night ''Tain't likely ye'll ever see it ag'in.Keep quiet now,' he added, letting down the bars at the foot of thelane. 'We're goin' west an' we mustn't let the grass grow under us. Gott'be purty spry I can tell ye.'It was quite dark and he felt his way carefully down the cow-paths intothe broad pasture. With every step I kept a sharp lookout for swifts,and the moon shone after a while, making my work easier.I had to hold my head down, presently, when the tall brush began to whipthe basket and I heard the big boots of Uncle Eb ripping the briars.Then we came into the blackness of the thick timber and I could hear himfeeling his way over the dead leaves with his cane. I got down, shortly,and walked beside him, holding on to the rifle with one hand. Westumbled, often, and were long in the trail before we could see themoonlight through the tree columns. In the clearing I climbed to myseat again and by and by we came to the road where my companion sat downresting his load on a boulder.'Pretty hot, Uncle Eb, pretty hot,' he said to himself, fanning his browwith that old felt hat he wore everywhere. 'We've come three mile ermore without a stop an' I guess we'd better rest a jiffy.'My legs ached too, and I was getting very sleepy. I remember the joltof the basket as he rose, and hearing him say, 'Well, Uncle Eb, I guesswe'd better be goin'.'The elbow that held my head, lying on the rim of the basket, was alreadynumb; but the prickling could no longer rouse me, and half-dead withweariness, I fell asleep. Uncle Eb has told me since, that I tumbled outof the basket once, and that he had a time of it getting me in again,but I remember nothing more of that day's history.When I woke in the morning, I could hear the crackling of fire, and feltvery warm and cosy wrapped in the big shawl. I got a cheery greetingfrom Uncle Eb, who was feeding the fire with a big heap of sticks thathe had piled together. Old Fred was licking my hands with his roughtongue, and I suppose that is what waked me. Tea was steeping in thelittle pot that hung over the fire, and our breakfast of boiled eggs andbread and butter lay on a paper beside it. I remember well the sceneof our little camp that morning. We had come to a strange country, andthere was no road in sight. A wooded hill lay back of us, and, justbefore, ran a noisy little brook, winding between smooth banks, througha long pasture into a dense wood. Behind a wall on the opposite shore agreat field of rustling corn filled a broad valley and stood higher thana man's head.While I went to wash my face in the clear water Uncle Eb was huskingsome ears of corn that he took out of his pocket, and had them roastingover the fire in a moment. We ate heartily, giving Fred two big slicesof bread and butter, packing up with enough remaining for another day.Breakfast over we doused the fire and Uncle Eb put on his basket He madeafter a squirrel, presently, with old Fred, and brought him down out ofa tree by hurling stones at him and then the faithful follower of ourcamp got a bit of meat for his breakfast. We climbed the wall, as heate, and buried ourselves in the deep corn. The fragrant, silky tasselsbrushed my face and the corn hissed at our intrusion, crossing its greensabers in our path. Far in the field my companion heaped a little of thesoft earth for a pillow, spread the oil cloth between rows and, as welay down, drew the big shawl over us. Uncle Eb was tired after the toilof that night and went asleep almost as soon as he was down. Before Idropped off Fred came and licked my face and stepped over me, his tailwagging for leave, and curled upon the shawl at my feet. I could see nosky in that gloomy green aisle of corn. This going to bed in the morningseemed a foolish business to me that day and I lay a long time lookingup at the rustling canopy overhead. I remember listening to the wavesthat came whispering out of the further field, nearer and nearer, untilthey swept over us with a roaring swash of leaves, like that of waterflooding among rocks, as I have heard it often. A twinge of homesicknesscame to me and the snoring of Uncle Eb gave me no comfort. I remembercovering my head and crying softly as I thought of those who had goneaway and whom I was to meet in a far country, called Heaven, whither wewere going. I forgot my sorrow, finally, in sleep. When I awoke it hadgrown dusk under the corn. I felt for Uncle Eb and he was gone. Then Icalled to him.'Hush, boy! lie low,' he whispered, bending over me, a sharp look in hiseye.' 'Fraid they're after us.'He sat kneeling beside me, holding Fred by the collar and listening. Icould hear voices, the rustle of the corn and the tramp of feet nearby. It was thundering in the distance--that heavy, shaking thunder thatseems to take hold of the earth, and there were sounds in the cornlike the drawing of sabers and the rush of many feet. The noisy thunderclouds came nearer and the voices that had made us tremble were nolonger heard. Uncle Eb began to fasten the oil blanket to the stalks ofcorn for a shelter. The rain came roaring over us. The sound of it waslike that of a host of cavalry coming at a gallop. We lay bracing thestalks, the blanket tied above us and were quite dry for a time. Therain rattled in the sounding sheaves and then came flooding down thesteep gutters. Above us beam and rafter creaked, swaying, and showingglimpses of the dark sky. The rain passed--we could hear the lastbattalion leaving the field--and then the tumult ended as suddenly asit began. The corn trembled a few moments and hushed to a faint whisper.Then we could hear only the drip of raindrops leaking through the greenroof. It was dark under the corn.Chapter 2We heard no more of the voices. Uncle Eb had brought an armful of wood,and some water in the teapot, while I was sleeping. As soon as the rainhad passed he stood listening awhile and shortly opened his knife andmade a little clearing in the corn by cutting a few hills.'We've got to do it,' he said, 'er we can't take any comfort, an' theman tol' me I could have all the corn I wanted.''Did you see him, Uncle Eb?' I remember asking.'Yes,' he answered, whittling in the dark. 'I saw him when I went outfor the water an' it was he tol' me they were after us.'He took a look at the sky after a while, and, remarking that he guessedthey couldn't see his smoke now, began to kindle the fire. As it burnedup he stuck two crotches and hung his teapot on a stick' that lay inthem, so it took the heat of the flame, as I had seen him do in themorning. Our grotto, in the corn, was shortly as cheerful as any room ina palace, and our fire sent its light into the long aisles that openedopposite, and nobody could see the warm glow of it but ourselves.'We'll hev our supper,' said Uncle Eb, as he opened a paper and spreadout the eggs and bread and butter and crackers. 'We'll jest hev oursupper an' by 'n by when everyone's abed we'll make tracks in the dirt,I can tell ye.'Our supper over, Uncle Eb let me look at his tobacco-box--a shiny thingof German silver that always seemed to snap out a quick farewell to mebefore it dove into his pocket. He was very cheerful and communicative,and joked a good deal as we lay there waiting in the firelight. I gotsome further acquaintance with the swift, learning among other thingsthat it had no appetite for the pure in heart.'Why not?' I enquired.'Well,' said Uncle Eb, 'it's like this: the meaner the boy, the sweeterthe meat.'He sang an old song as he sat by the fire, with a whistled interludebetween lines, and the swing of it, even now, carries me back to thatfar day in the fields. I lay with my head in his lap while he wassinging.Years after, when I could have carried him on my back' he wrote downfor me the words of the old song. Here they are, about as he sang them,although there are evidences of repair, in certain lines, to supply theloss of phrases that had dropped out of his memory:  I was goin' to Salem one bright summer day,  I met a young maiden a goin' my way;  O, my fallow, faddeling fallow, faddel away.  An' many a time I had seen her before,  But I never dare tell 'er the love thet I bore.  O, my fallow, etc.  'Oh, where are you goin' my purty fair maid?'  'O, sir, I am goin' t' Salem,' she said.  O, my fallow, etc.  'O, why are ye goin' so far in a day?  Fer warm is the weather and long is the way.'  O, my fallow, etc.  'O, sir I've forgorten, I hev, I declare,  But it's nothin' to eat an' its nothin' to wear.'  O, my fallow, etc.  'Oho! then I hev it, ye purty young miss!  I'll bet it is only three words an' a kiss.'  O, my fallow, etc.  'Young woman, young woman, O how will it dew  If I go see yer lover 'n bring 'em t' you?'  O, my fallow, etc.  ''S a very long journey,' says she, 'I am told,  An' before ye got back, they would surely be cold.'  O, my fallow, etc.  'I hev 'em right with me, I vum an' I vow,  An' if you don't object I'll deliver 'em now.'  O, my fallow, etc.  She laid her fair head all on to my breast,  An' ye wouldn't know more if I tol' ye the rest  O, my fallow, etc.I went asleep after awhile in spite of all, right in the middle of astory. The droning voice of Uncle Eb and the feel of his hand upon myforehead called me back, blinking, once or twice, but not for long. Thefire was gone down to a few embers when Uncle Eb woke me and the grottowas lit only by a sprinkle of moonlight from above.'Mos' twelve o'clock,' he whispered. 'Better be off.'The basket was on his back and he was all ready. I followed him throughthe long aisle of corn, clinging to the tall of his coat. The goldenlantern of the moon hung near the zenith and when we came out in theopen we could see into the far fields. I climbed into my basket at thewall and as Uncle Eb carried me over the brook, stopping on a flat rockmidway to take a drink, I could see the sky in the water, and it seemedas if a misstep would have tumbled me into the moon.'Hear the crickets holler,' said Uncle Eb, as he followed the bank upinto the open pasture.'What makes 'em holler?' I asked.'O, they're jes' filin' their saws an' thinkin'. Mebbe tellin' o' what'shappened 'em. Been a hard day fer them little folks. Terrible flood intheir country. Everyone on em hed t' git up a steeple quick 'she coulder be drownded. They hev their troubles an' they talk 'bout 'em, too.''What do they file their saws for?' I enquired.'Well, ye know,' said he, 'where they live the timber's thick an' theyhev hard work clearin' t' mek a home.'I was getting too sleepy for further talk. He made his way from field tofield, stopping sometimes to look off at the distant mountains then atthe sky or to whack the dry stalks of mullen with his cane. I rememberhe let down some bars after a long walk and stepped into a smoothroadway. He stood resting a little while, his basket on the top bar, andthen the moon that I had been watching went down behind the broad rim ofhis hat and I fell into utter forgetfulness. My eyes opened on a lovelyscene at daylight. Uncle Eb had laid me on a mossy knoll in a bit oftimber and through an opening right in front of us I could see a broadlevel of shining water, and the great green mountain on the furthershore seemed to be up to its belly in the sea.'Hello there!' said Uncle Eb; 'here we are at Lake Champlain.'I could hear the fire crackling and smell the odour of steeping tea.'Ye flopped 'round like a fish in thet basket,' said Uncle Eb. ''Guessye must a been drearnin' O' bears. Jumped so ye scairt me. Didn't knowbut I had a wil' cat on my shoulders.'Uncle Eb had taken a fish-line out of his pocket and was tying it to arude pole that he had cut and trinmed with his jack-knife.'I've found some crawfish here,' he said, 'an' I'm goin' t' try fer abite on the p'int O' rocks there.''Goin' t' git some fish, Uncle Eb?' I enquired.'Wouldn't say't I was, er wouldn't say't I wasn't,' he answered. 'Jesgoin' t' try.'Uncle Eb was always careful not to commit himself on a doubtful point.He had fixed his hook and sinker in a moment and then we went out on arocky point nearby and threw off into the deep water. Suddenly UncleEb gave a jerk that brought a groan out of him and then let his hook godown again, his hands trembling, his face severe.'By mighty! Uncle Eb,' he muttered to himself, 'I thought we hed himthet time.'He jerked again presently, and then I could see a tug on the line thatmade me jump. A big fish came thrashing into the air in a minute. Hetried to swing it ashore, but the pole bent and the fish got a freshhold of the water and took the end of the pole under. Uncle Eb gave ita lift then that brought it ashore and a good bit of water with it. Iremember how the fish slapped me with its wet tail and sprinkled my faceshaking itself between my boots. It was a big bass and in a little whilewe had three of them. Uncle Eb dressed them and laid them over the fireon a gridiron of green birch, salting them as they cooked. I rememberthey went with a fine relish and the last of our eggs and bread andbutter went with them.Our breakfast over, Uncle Eb made me promise to stay with Fred and thebasket while he went away to find a man who could row us across. Inabout an hour I heard a boat coming and the dog and I went out on thepoint of rocks where we saw Uncle Eb and another man, heading for us,half over the cove. The bow bumped the rocks beneath us in a minute.Then the stranger dropped his oars and stood staring at me and the dog.'Say, mister,' said he presently, 'can't go no further. There's a rewardoffered fer you an' thet boy.'Uncle Eb called him aside and was talking to him a long time.I never knew what was said, but they came at last and took us into theboat and the stranger was very friendly.When we had come near the landing on the 'York State' side, I rememberhe gave us our bearings.'Keep t' the woods,' he said, 'till you're out o' harm's way. Don't gonear the stage road fer a while. Ye'll find a store a little way up themountain. Git yer provisions there an' about eighty rod farther ye'llstrike the trail. It'll take ye over the mountain north an' t' ParadiseRoad. Then take the white church on yer right shoulder an' go straightwest.'I would not have remembered it so well but for the fact that Uncle Ebwrote it all down in his account book and that has helped me over manya slippery place in my memory of those events. At the store we got somecrackers and cheese, tea and coffee, dried beef and herring, a bit ofhoney and a loaf of bread that was sliced and buttered before it wasdone up. We were off in the woods by nine o'clock, according to UncleEb's diary, and I remember the trail led us into thick brush where I hadto get out and walk a long way. It was smooth under foot, however, andat noon we came to a slash in the timber, full of briars that were allaglow with big blackberries. We filled our hats with them and Uncle Ebfound a spring, beside which we built a fire and had a memorable mealthat made me glad of my hunger.Then we spread the oilcloth and lay down for another sleep. We couldsee the glow of the setting sun through the tree-tops when we woke, andbegan our packing.'We'll hev t' hurry,' said Uncle Eb, 'er we'll never git out o' thewoods t'night 'S 'bout six mile er more t' Paradise Road, es I mek it.Come, yer slower 'n a toad in a tar barrel.'We hurried off on the trail and I remember Fred looked very crestfallenwith two big packages tied to his collar. He delayed a bit by trying toshake them off, but Uncle Eb gave him a sharp word or two and then hewalked along very thoughtfully. Uncle Eb was a little out of patiencethat evening, and I thought he bore down too harshly in his rebuke ofthe old dog.'You shif'less cuss,' he said to him, 'ye'd jes' dew nothin' but chasesquirrels an' let me break my back t' carry yer dinner.'It was glooming fast in the thick timber, and Uncle Eb almost ran withme while the way was plain. The last ringing note of the wood thrushhad died away and in a little while it was so dark I could distinguishnothing but the looming mass of tree trunks.He stopped suddenly and strained his eyes in the dark. Then he whistleda sharp, sliding note, and the sound of it gave me some hint of histrouble.'Git down, Willie,' said he, 'an' tek my hand. I'm 'fraid we're losthere 'n the big woods.'We groped about for a minute, trying to find the trail.'No use,' he said presently, 'we'll hev t' stop right here. Oughterknown berter 'n t' come through s' near sundown. Guess it was more 'nanybody could do.'He built a fire and began to lay out a supper for us then, while Fredsat down by me to be relieved of his bundles. Our supper was rather dry,for we had no water, but it was only two hours since we left the spring,so we were not suffering yet. Uncle Eb took out of the fire a burningbrand of pine and went away into the gloomy woods, holding it above hishead, while Fred and I sat by the fire.''S lucky we didn't go no further,' he said, as he came in after a fewminutes. 'There's a big prec'pice over yender. Dunno how deep 't is.Guess we'd a found out purty soon.'He cut some boughs of hemlock, growing near us, and spread them in alittle hollow. That done, we covered them with the oilcloth, and satdown comfortably by the fire. Uncle Eb had a serious look and was notinclined to talk or story telling. Before turning in he asked me tokneel and say my prayer as I had done every evening at the feet ofmy mother. I remember, clearly, kneeling before my old companion andhearing the echo of my small voice there in the dark and lonely woods.I remember too, and even more clearly, how he bent his head and coveredhis eyes in that brief moment. I had a great dread of darkness andimagined much evil of the forest, but somehow I had no fear if he werenear me. When we had fixed the fire and lain down for the night on thefragrant hemlock and covered ourselves with the shawl, Uncle Eb lay onone side of me and old Fred on the other, so I felt secure indeed. Thenight had many voices there in the deep wood. Away in the distance Icould hear a strange, wild cry, and I asked what it was and Uncle Ebwhispered back, ''s a loon.' Down the side of the mountain a shrill barkrang in the timber and that was a fox, according to my patient oracle.Anon we heard the crash and thunder of a falling tree and a murmur thatfollowed in the wake of the last echo.'Big tree fallin'!' said Uncle Eb, as he lay gaping. 'It has t' break away t' the ground an' it must hurt. Did ye notice how the woods tremble?If we was up above them we could see the hole thet tree hed made. Jes'like an open grave till the others hev filed it with their tops.'My ears had gone deaf with drowsiness when a quick stir in the body ofUncle Eb brought me back to my senses. He was up on his elbow listeningand the firelight had sunk to a glimmer. Fred lay shivering and growlingbeside me. I could hear no other sound.'Be still,' said Uncle Eb, as he boxed the dog's ears. Then he rose andbegan to stir the fire and lay on more wood. As the flame leaped andthrew its light into the tree-tops a shrill cry, like the scream of afrightened woman, only louder and more terrible to hear brought me to myfeet, crying. I knew the source of it was near us and ran to Uncle Eb ina fearful panic.'Hush, boy,' said he as it died away and went echoing in the far forest.'I'll take care o' you. Don't be scairt. He's more 'fraid uv us than weare o' him. He's makin' off now.'We heard then a great crackling of dead brush on the mountain above us.It grew fainter as we listened. In a little while the woods were silent.'It's the ol' man o' the woods,' said Uncle Eb. 'E's out takin' a walk.''Will he hurt folks?' I enquired.'Tow!' he answered, 'jest as harmless as a kitten.'Chapter 3Naturally there were a good many things I wanted to know about 'theol' man o' the woods,' but Uncle Eb would take no part in any furtherconversation.So I had to lie down beside him again and think out the problem as bestI could. My mind was never more acutely conscious and it gathered manystrange impressions, wandering in the kingdom of Fear, as I looked upat the tree-tops. Uncle Eb had built a furious fire and the warmth ofit made me sleepy at last. Both he and old Fred had been snoring a longtime when I ceased to hear them. Uncle Eb woke me at daylight, in themorning, and said we must be off to find the trail. He left me by thefire a little while and went looking on all sides and came back nowiser. We were both thirsty and started off on rough footing, withoutstopping to eat. We climbed and crawled for hours, it seemed to me, andeverywhere the fallen tree trunks were heaped in our way. Uncle Eb satdown on one of them awhile to rest.'Like the bones o' the dead,' said he, as he took a chew of tobacco andpicked at the rotten skeleton of a fallen tree. We were both pretty wellout of breath and of hope also, if I remember rightly, when we restedagain under the low hanging boughs of a basswood for a bite of luncheon.Uncle Eb opened the little box of honey and spread some of it on ourbread and butter. In a moment I noticed that half a dozen bees had litin the open box.'Lord Harry! here's honey bees,' said he, as he covered the box so as tokeep them in, and tumbled everything else into the basket. 'Make hastenow, Willie, and follow me with all yer might,' he added.In a minute he let out one of the bees, and started running in thedirection it flew. It went but a few feet and then rose into thetree-top.'He's goin' t' git up into the open air,' said Uncle Eb. 'But I've gothis bearins' an' I guess he knows the way all right.'We took the direction indicated for a few minutes and then Uncle Eb letout another prisoner. The bee flew off a little way and then rose in aslanting course to the tree-tops. He showed us, however, that we werelooking the right way.'Them little fellers hev got a good compass,' said Uncle Eb, as wefollowed the line of the bees. 'It p'ints home ev'ry time, an' nevermakes a mistake.'We went further this time before releasing another. He showed us thatwe had borne out of our course a little and as we turned to followthere were half a dozen bees flying around the box, as if begging foradmission.'Here they are back agin,' said Uncle Eb, 'an' they've told a lot o'their cronies 'bout the man an' the boy with honey.'At length one of them flew over our heads and back in the direction wehad come from.'Ah, ha,' said Uncle Eb, 'it's a bee tree an' we've passed it, but I'mgoin' t' keep lettin' 'em in an' out. Never heard uv a swarm o' beesgoin' fur away an' so we mus' be near the clearin'.'In a little while we let one go that took a road of its own. The othershad gone back over our heads; this one bore off to the right in front ofus, and we followed. I was riding in the basket and was first to see thelight of the open through the tree-tops. But I didn't know what it meantuntil I heard the hearty 'hurrah' of Uncle Eb.We had come to smooth footing in a grove of maples and the clean trunksof the trees stood up as straight as a granite column. Presently we cameout upon wide fields of corn and clover, and as we looked back upon thegrove it had a rounded front and I think of it now as the vestibule ofthe great forest.'It's a reg'lar big tomb,' said Uncle Eb, looking back over his shoulderinto the gloomy cavern of the woods.We could see a log house in the clearing, and we made for it as fast asour legs would carry us. We had a mighty thirst and when we came to alittle brook in the meadow we laid down and drank and drank until wewere fairly grunting with fullness. Then we filled our teapot and wenton. Men were reaping with their cradles in a field of grain and, as weneared the log house, a woman came out in the dooryard and, lifting ashell to her lips, blew a blast that rushed over the clearing and rangin the woods beyond it A loud halloo came back from the men.A small dog rushed out at Fred, barking, and, I suppose, with some lackof respect, for the old dog laid hold of him in a violent temper andsent him away yelping. We must have presented an evil aspect, for ourclothes were torn and we were both limping with fatigue. The woman hada kindly face and, after looking at us a moment, came and stooped beforeme and held my small face in her hands turning it so she could look intomy eyes.'You poor little critter,' said she, 'where you goin'?'Uncle Eb told her something about my father and mother being dead andour going west Then she hugged and kissed me and made me very miserable,I remember, wetting my face with her tears, that were quite beyond mycomprehension.'Jethro,' said she, as the men came into the yard, 'I want ye t' lookat this boy. Did ye ever see such a cunnin' little critter? Jes' lookat them bright eyes!' and then she held me to her breast and nearlysmothered me and began to hum a bit of an old song.'Yer full o' mother love,' said her husband, as he sat down on the grassa moment 'Lost her only baby, an' the good Lord has sent no other. Iswan, he has got putty eyes. Jes' as blue as a May flower. Ain't yehungry? Come right in, both o' ye, an' set down t' the table with us.'They made room for us and we sat down between the bare elbows of thehired men. I remember my eyes came only to the top of the table. So thegood woman brought the family Bible and sitting on that firm foundationI ate my dinner of salt pork and potatoes and milk gravy, a diet asgrateful as it was familiar to my taste.'Orphan, eh?' said the man of the house, looking down at me.'Orphan,' Uncle Eb answered, nodding his head.'God-fearin' folks?''Best in the world,' said Uncle Eb.Want t' bind 'im out?' the man asked.'Couldn't spare 'im,' said Uncle Eb, decisively.'Where ye goin'?'Uncle Eb hesitated, groping for an answer, I suppose, that would do noviolence to our mutual understanding.'Goin' t' heaven,' I ventured to say presently--an answer that gave riseto conflicting emotions at the table.'That's right,' said Uncle Eb, turning to me and patting my head. 'We'reon the road t' heaven, I hope, an' ye'll see it someday, sartin sure, ifye keep in the straight road and be a good boy.'After dinner the good woman took off my clothes and put me in bed whileshe mended them. I went asleep then and did not awake for a long time.When I got up at last she brought a big basin of water and washed mewith such motherly tenderness in voice and manner that I have neverforgotten it. Uncle Eb lay sleeping on the lounge and when she hadfinished dressing me, Fred and I went out to play in the garden. Itwas supper time in a little while and then, again, the woman winded theshell and the men came up from the field. We sat down to eat with them,as we had done at noon, and Uncle Eb consented to spend the night aftersome urging. He helped them with the milking, and as I stood beside himshot a jet of the warm white flood into my mouth, that tickled it soI ran away laughing. The milking done, I sat on Uncle Eb's knee in thedoor-yard with all the rest of that household, hearing many tales ofthe wilderness, and of robbery and murder on Paradise Road. I got theimpression that it was a country of unexampled wickedness and ferocityin men and animals. One man told about the ghost of Burnt Bridge; howthe bridge had burnt one afternoon and how a certain traveller in thedark of the night driving down the hill above it, fell to his death atthe brink of the culvert.'An' every night since then,' said the man, very positively, ye can hearhim drivin' down thet hill--jes' as plain as ye can hear me talkin'--therattle o' the wheels an' all. It stops sudden an' then ye can hear 'imhit the rocks way down there at the bottom O' the gulley an' groan an'groan. An' folks say it's a curse on the town for leavin' thet holeopen.''What's a ghost, Uncle Eb?' I whispered.'Somethin' like a swift,' he answered, 'but not so powerful. We heard apanther las' night,' he added, turning to our host. 'Hollered like sinwhen he see the fire.''Scairt!' said the man o' the house gaping. 'That's what ailed him. I'velived twenty year on Paradise Road an' it was all woods when I putup the cabin. Seen deer on the doorstep an' bears in the garden, an'panthers in the fields. But I tell ye there's no critter so terrible asa man. All the animals know 'im--how he roars, an' spits fire an' smokean' lead so it goes through a body er bites off a leg, mebbe. Guessthey'd made friends with me but them I didn't kill went away smartingwith holes in 'em. An' I guess they told all their people 'bout me--theterrible critter that walked on its hind legs an' lied a white face an'drew up an' spit 'is teeth into their vitals 'cross a ten-acre lot. An'putty soon they concluded they didn't want t' hev no truck with me. Theythought thin clearin' was the valley o' death an' they got verycareful. But the deer they kep' peekin' in at me. Sumthin' funny 'bout adeer--they're so cu'rus. Seem's though they loved the look o' me an' thetaste o' the tame grass. Mebbe God meant em t' serve in the yoke someway an' be the friend o' man. They're the outcasts o' the forest--theprey o' the other animals an' men like 'em only when they're dead.An' they're the purtiest critter alive an' the spryest an' the mos'graceful.''Men are the mos' terrible of all critters, an' the meanest,' said UncleEb. 'They're the only critters that kill fer fun.''Bedtime,' said our host, rising presently. 'Got t' be up early 'n themorning.'We climbed a ladder to the top floor of the cabin with the hired men, ofwhom there were two. The good lady of the house had made a bed for uson the floor and I remember Fred came up the ladder too, and lay downbeside us. Uncle Eb was up with the men in the morning and at breakfasttime my hostess came and woke me with kisses and helped me to dress.When we were about going she brought a little wagon out of the cellarthat had been a playing of her dead boy, and said I could have it. Thiswonderful wagon was just the thing for the journey we were making. WhenI held the little tongue in my hand I was half-way to heaven already. Ithad four stout wheels and a beautiful red box. Her brother had sent itall the way from New York and it had stood so long in the cellar it wasnow much in need of repair. Uncle Eb took it to the tool shop in thestable and put it in shipshape order and made a little pair of thills togo in place of the tongue. Then he made a big flat collar and a back-padout of the leather in old boot-legs, and rigged a pair of tugs outof two pieces of rope. Old Fred was quite cast down when he stood inharness between the shafts.He had waited patiently to have his collar fitted; he had grinnedand panted and wagged his tail with no suspicion of the serious andhumiliating career he was entering upon. Now he stood with a sober faceand his aspect was full of meditation.'You fightin' hound!' said Uncle Eb, 'I hope this'll improve yercharacter.'Fred tried to sit down when Uncle Eb tied a leading rope to his collar.When he heard the wheels rattle and felt the pull of the wagon he lookedback at it and growled a little and started to run. Uncle Eb shouted'whoa', and held him back, and then the dog got down on his belly andtrembled until we patted his head and gave him a kind word. He seemedto understand presently and came along with a steady stride. Our hostessmet us at the gate and the look of her face when she bade us goodbye andtucked some cookies into my pocket, has always lingered in my memory andput in me a mighty respect for all women. The sound of her voice, thetears, the waving of her handkerchief, as we went away, are among thethings that have made me what I am.We stowed our packages in the wagon box and I walked a few miles andthen got into the empty basket. Fred tipped his load over once or twice,but got a steady gait in the way of industry after a while and a morecheerful look. We had our dinner by the roadside on the bank of a brook,an hour or so after midday, and came to a little village about sundown.As we were nearing it there was some excitement among the dogs andone of them tackled Fred. He went into battle very promptly, the wagonjumping and rattling until it turned bottom up. Re-enforced by UncleEb's cane he soon saw the heels of his aggressor and stood growlingsavagely. He was like the goal in a puzzle maze all wound and tangledin his harness and it took some time to get his face before him and hisfeet free.At a small grocery where groups of men, just out of the fields, weresitting, their arms bare to the elbows, we bought more bread and butter.In paying for it Uncle Eb took a package out of his trouser pocket toget his change. It was tied in a red handkerchief and I remember itlooked to be about the size of his fist. He was putting it back when itfell from his hand, heavily, and I could hear the chink of coin as itstruck. One of the men, who sat near, picked it up and gave it back tohim. As I remember well, his kindness had an evil flavour, for he winkedat his companions, who nudged each other as they smiled knowingly. UncleEb was a bit cross, when I climbed into the basket, and walked along insilence so rapidly it worried the dog to keep pace. The leading rope wastied to the stock of the rifle and Fred's walking gait was too slow forthe comfort of his neck.'You shifless cuss! I'll put a kink in your neck fer you if ye don'twalk up,' said Uncle Eb, as he looked back at the dog, in a temperwholly unworthy of him.We had crossed a deep valley and were climbing a long hill in the duskytwilight.'Willie,' said Uncle Eb, 'your eyes are better'n mine--look back and seeif anyone's comin'.''Can't see anyone,' I answered.'Look 'way back in the road as fur as ye can see.I did so, but I could see no one. He slackened his pace a little afterthat and before we had passed the hill it was getting dark. The road raninto woods and a river cut through them a little way from the clearing.'Supper time, Uncle Eb,' I suggested, as we came to the bridge.'Supper time, Uncle Eb,' he answered, turning down to the shore.I got out of the basket then and followed him in the brush. Fred foundit hard travelling here and shortly we took off his harness and left thewagon, transferring its load to the basket, while we pushed on to finda camping place. Back in the thick timber a long way from the road, webuilt a fire and had our supper. It was a dry nook in the pines--'tightas a house,' Uncle Eb said--and carpeted with the fragrant needles. Whenwe lay on our backs in the firelight I remember the weary, droning voiceof Uncle Eb had an impressive accompaniment of whispers. While he toldstories I had a glowing cinder on the end of a stick and was weavingfiery skeins in the gloom.He had been telling me of a panther he had met in the woods, one day,and how the creature ran away at the sight of him.'Why's a panther 'fraid o' folks?' I enquired.'Wall, ye see, they used t' be friendly, years 'n years ago--folks 'npanthers--but they want eggszac'ly cal'lated t' git along t'gether someway. An' ol' she panther gin 'em one uv her cubs, a great while ago, jest' make frien's. The cub he grew big 'n used t' play 'n be very gentle.They wuz a boy he tuk to, an' both on 'em got very friendly. The boy 'nthe panther went off one day 'n the woods--guess 'twas more 'n a hundredyear ago--an' was lost. Walked all over 'n fin'ly got t' goin' round 'nround 'n a big circle 'til they was both on 'em tired out. Come nightthey lay down es hungry es tew bears. The boy he was kind o' 'fraid 'othe dark, so he got up clus t' the panther 'n lay 'tween his paws. Theboy he thought the panther smelt funny an' the panther he didn't jes'like the smell o' the boy. An' the boy he hed the legache 'n kickedthe panther 'n the belly, so 't he kin' o' gagged 'n spit an' they wantneither on 'em reel comf'able. The sof paws o' the panther was jes' likepincushions. He'd great hooks in 'em sharper 'n the p'int uv a needle.An' when he was goin' t' sleep he'd run 'em out jes' like an ol'cat--kind o' playfull--'n purr 'n pull. All t' once the boy feltsumthin' like a lot o' needles prickin' his back. Made him jump 'nholler like Sam Hill. The panther he spit sassy 'n riz up 'n smelt o'the ground. Didn't neither on 'em know what was the matter. Bime byethey lay down ag'in. 'Twant only a little while 'fore the boy feltsomethin' prickin' uv him. He hollered 'n kicked ag'in. The panther hegrowled 'n spit 'n dumb a tree 'n sot on a limb 'n peeked over at thetqueer little critter. Couldn't neither on 'em understan' it. The boyc'u'd see the eyes o' the panther 'n the dark. Shone like tew live coalseggszac'ly. The panther 'd never sot 'n a tree when he was hungry, 'nsee a boy below him. Sumthin' tol' him t' jump. Tail went swish in theleaves like thet. His whiskers quivered, his tongue come out. C'u'dthink o' nuthin' but his big empty belly. The boy was scairt. He up withhis gun quick es a flash. Aimed at his eyes 'n let 'er flicker. Blew alot o' smoke 'n bird shot 'n paper waddin' right up in t' his face. Thepanther he lost his whiskers 'n one eye 'n got his hide fill' o' shot'n fell off the tree like a ripe apple 'n run fer his life. Thought he'dnever see nuthin' c'u'd growl 'n spits powerful es thet boy. Never c'u'dbear the sight uv a man after thet. Allwus made him gag 'n spit t' thinko' the man critter. Went off tew his own folks 'n tol' o' the boy 'atspit fire 'n smoke 'n growled so't almos' tore his ears off An' now,whenever they hear a gun go off they allwus thank it's the man crittergrowlin'. An' they gag 'n spit 'n look es if it made 'em sick t'the stomach. An' the man folks they didn't hev no good 'pimon o' thepanthers after thet. Haint never been frien's any more. Fact is a man,he can be any kind uv a beast, but a panther he can't be nuthin' butjest a panther.'Then, too, as we lay there in the firelight, Uncle Eb told theremarkable story of the gingerbread hear. He told it slowly, as if hisinvention were severely taxed.'Once they wuz a boy got lost. Was goin' cross lots t' play with 'notherboy 'n lied t' go through a strip o' woods. Went off the trail t' chasea butterfly 'n got lost. Hed his kite 'n' cross-gun 'n' he wandered allover 'til he was tired 'n hungry. Then he lay down t' cry on a bed o'moss. Putty quick they was a big black bear come along.'"What's the matter?" said the bear.'"Hungry," says the boy.'"Tell ye what I'll dew," says the bear. "If ye'll scratch my back ferme I'll let ye cut a piece o' my tail off t' eat."'Bear's tail, ye know, hes a lot o' meat on it--heam tell it was gran'good fare. So the boy he scratched the bear's back an' the bear hegrinned an' made his paw go patitty-pat on the ground--it did feel sosplendid. Then the boy tuk his jack-knife 'n begun t' cut off the bear'stail. The bear he flew mad 'n growled 'n growled so the boy he stopped'n didn't dast cut no more.'"Hurts awful," says the bear. "Couldn't never stan' it. Tell ye whatI'll dew. Ye scratched my back an' now I'll scratch your'n."'Gee whiz!' said I.'Yessir, that's what the bear said,' Uncle Eb went on. 'The boy he up'n run like a nailer. The bear he laughed hearty 'n scratched the groundlike Sam Hill, 'n flung the dirt higher'n his head.'"Look here," says he, as the boy stopped, "I jes' swallered a piece omutton. Run yer hand int' my throat an I'll let ye hev it."'The bear he opened his mouth an' showed his big teeth.''Whew!' I whistled.'Thet's eggszac'ly what he done,' said Uncle Eb. 'He showed 'em plain.The boy was scairter'n a weasel. The bear he jumped up 'an down on hishind legs 'n laughed 'n' hollered 'n' shook himself.'"Only jes' foolin," says he, when he see the boy was goin' t' runag'in. "What ye 'fraid uv?"'"Can't bear t' stay here," says the boy, "'less ye'll keep yer mouthshet."'An the bear he shet his mouth 'n pinted to the big pocket 'n his furcoat 'n winked 'n motioned t' the boy.'The bear he reely did hev a pocket on the side uv his big fur coat. Theboy slid his hand in up t' the elbow. Wha' d'ye s'pose he found?''Durmo,' said I.'Sumthin' t' eat,' he continued. 'Boy liked it best uv all things.'I guessed everything I could think of, from cookies to beefsteak, andgave up.'Gingerbread,' said he, soberly, at length.'Thought ye said bears couldn't talk,' I objected.'Wall, the boy 'd fell asleep an' he'd only dreamed o' the bear,' saidUncle Eb. 'Ye see, bears can talk when boys are dreamin' uv 'em. Comedaylight, the boy got up 'n ketched a crow. Broke his wing with thecross-gun. Then he tied the kite swing on t' the crow's leg, an' thecrow flopped along 'n the boy followed him 'n bime bye they come out acornfield, where the crow'd been used t' comin' fer his dinner.''What 'come o' the boy?' said I.'Went home,' said he, gaping, as he lay on his back and looked up at thetree-tops. 'An' he allwus said a bear was good comp'ny if he'd only keephis mouth shet--jes' like some folks I've hearn uv.''An' what 'come o' the crow?''Went t' the ol' crow doctor 'n got his wing fixed,' he said, drowsily.And in a moment I heard him snoring.We had been asleep a long time when the barking of Fred woke us. I couldjust see Uncle Eb in the dim light of the fire, kneeling beside me, therifle in his hand.'I'll fill ye full o' lead if ye come any nearer,' he shouted.Chapter 4We listened awhile then but heard no sound in the thicket, although Fredwas growling ominously, his hair on end. As for myself I never had amore fearful hour than that we suffered before the light of morningcame.I made no outcry, but clung to my old companion, trembling. He did notstir for a few minutes, and then we crept cautiously into the smallhemlocks on one side of the opening.'Keep still,' he whispered, 'don't move er speak.'Presently we heard a move in the brush and then quick as a flash UncleEb lifted his rifle and fired in the direction of it Before the loudecho had gone off in the woods we heard something break through thebrush at a run.''S a man,' said Uncle Eb, as he listened. 'He ain't a losin' no timenuther.'We sat listening as the sound grew fainter, and when it ceased entirelyUncle Eb said he must have got to the road. After a little the lightof the morning began sifting down through the tree-tops and was greetedwith innumerable songs.'He done noble,' said Uncle Eb, patting the old dog as he rose to pokethe fire. 'Putty good chap I call 'im! He can hev half o' my dinner anytime he wants it.''Who do you suppose it was?' I enquired.'Robbers, I guess,' he answered, 'an' they'll be layin' fer us whenwe go out, mebbe; but, if they are, Fred'll find 'em an' I've got Ol'Trusty here 'n' I guess thet'll take care uv us.'His rifle was always flattered with that name of Ol' Trusty when it haddone him a good turn.Soon as the light had come clear he went out in the near woods with dogand rifle and beat around in the brush. He returned shortly and said hehad seen where they came and went.'I'd a killed em deader 'n a door nail,' said he, laying down the oldrifle, 'if they'd a come any nearer.'Then we brought water from the river and had our breakfast. Fred went onahead of us, when we started for the road, scurrying through the brushon both sides of the trail, as if he knew what was expected of him. Heflushed a number of partridges and Uncle Eb killed one of them on ourway to the road. We resumed our journey without any further adventure.It was so smooth and level under foot that Uncle Eb let me get in thewagon after Fred was hitched to it The old dog went along soberly andwithout much effort, save when we came to hills or sandy places, whenI always got out and ran on behind. Uncle Eb showed me how to brake thewheels with a long stick going downhill. I remember how it hit the dog'sheels at the first down grade, and how he ran to keep out of the wayof it We were going like mad in half a minute, Uncle Eb coming after uscalling to the dog. Fred only looked over his shoulder, with a wild eye,at the rattling wagon and ran the harder. He leaped aside at the bottomand then we went all in a heap. Fortunately no harm was done.'I declare!' said Uncle Eb as he came up to us, puffing like a spenthorse, and picked me up unhurt and began to untangle the harness of oldFred, 'I guess he must a thought the devil was after him.'The dog growled a little for a moment and bit at the harness, butcoaxing reassured him and he went along all right again on the level. Ata small settlement the children came out and ran along beside my wagon,laughing and asking me questions. Some of them tried to pet the dog, butold Fred kept to his labour at the heels of Uncle Eb and looked neitherto right nor left. We stopped under a tree by the side of a narrow brookfor our dinner, and one incident of that meal I think of always whenI think of Uncle Eb. It shows the manner of man he was and with whatunderstanding and sympathy he regarded every living thing. In rinsinghis teapot he accidentally poured a bit of water on a big bumble-bee.The poor creature struggled to lift hill, and then another downpourcaught him and still another until his wings fell drenched. Then hisbreast began heaving violently, his legs stiffened behind him and hesank, head downward, in the grass. Uncle Eb saw the death throes of thebee and knelt down and lifted the dead body by one of its wings.'Jes' look at his velvet coat,' he said, 'an' his wings all wet n'stiff. They'll never carry him another journey. It's too bad a man hast' kill every step he takes.'The bee's tail was moving faintly and Uncle Eb laid him out in the warmsunlight and fanned him awhile with his hat, trying to bring back thebreath of life.'Guilty!' he said, presently, coming back with a sober face. 'Thet's adead bee. No tellin' how many was dependent on him er what plans he bed.Must a gi'n him a lot o' pleasure t' fly round in the sunlight, workin'every fair day. 'S all over now.'He had a gloomy face for an hour after that and many a time, in the daysthat followed, I heard him speak of the murdered bee.We lay resting awhile after dinner and watching a big city of ants.Uncle Eb told me how they tilled the soil of the mound every year andsowed their own kind of grain--a small white seed like rice--and reapedtheir harvest in the late summer, storing the crop in their dry cellarsunder ground. He told me also the story of the ant lion--a big beetlethat lives in the jungles of the grain and the grass--of which Iremember only an outline, more or less imperfect.Here it is in my own rewording of his tale: On a bright day one of thelittle black folks went off on a long road in a great field of barley.He was going to another city of his own people to bring helpers for theharvest. He came shortly to a sandy place where the barley was thin andthe hot sunlight lay near to the ground. In a little valley close bythe road of the ants he saw a deep pit, in the sand, with steep sidessloping to a point in the middle and as big around as a biscuit. Nowthe ants are a curious people and go looking for things that are new andwonderful as they walk abroad, so they have much to tell worth hearingafter a journey. The little traveller was young and had no fear, so heleft the road and went down to the pit and peeped over the side of it.'What in the world is the meaning of this queer place?' he asked himselfas he ran around the rim. In a moment he had stepped over and the softsand began to cave and slide beneath him. Quick as a flash the biglion-beetle rose up in the centre of the pit and began to reach forhim. Then his legs flew in the caving sand and the young ant struckhis blades in it to hold the little he could gain. Upward he struggled,leaping and floundering in the dust. He had got near the rim and hadstopped, clinging to get his breath, when the lion began flinging thesand at him with his long feelers. It rose in a cloud and fell on theback of the ant and pulled at him as it swept down. He could feel themighty cleavers of the lion striking near his hind legs and pulling thesand from under them. He must go down in a moment and he knew what thatmeant. He had heard the old men of the tribe tell often--how they holdone helpless and slash him into a dozen pieces. He was letting go, indespair, when he felt a hand on his neck. Looking up he saw one of hisown people reaching over the rim, and in a jiffy they had shut theirfangs together. He moved little by little as the other tagged at him,and in a moment was out of the trap and could feel the honest earthunder him. When they had got home and told their adventure, some werefor going to slay the beetle.'There is never a pit in the path o' duty,' said the wise old chief ofthe little black folks. 'See that you keep in the straight road.''If our brother had not left the straight road,' said one who stoodnear, 'he that was in danger would have gone down into the pit.''It matters much,' he answered, 'whether it was kindness or curiositythat led him out of the road. But he that follows a fool hath much needof wisdom, for if he save the fool do ye not see that he hath encouragedfolly?'Of course I had then no proper understanding of the chiefs counsel, nordo I pretend even to remember it from that first telling, but the talewas told frequently in the course of my long acquaintance with Uncle Eb.The diary of my good old friend lies before me as I write, the leavesturned yellow and the entries dim. I remember how stern he grew of anevening when he took out this sacred little record of our wanderings andbegan to write in it with his stub of a pencil. He wrote slowly and readand reread each entry with great care as I held the torch for him. 'Bestill, boy--be still,' he would say when some pressing interrogatorypassed my lips, and then he would bend to his work while the point ofhis pencil bored further into my patience. Beginning here I shall quotea few entries from the diary as they cover, with sufficient detail, anuneventful period of our journey.AUGUST 20 Killed a partridge today. Biled it in the teapot for dinner.Went good. 14 mild.AUGUST 21 Seen a deer this morning. Fred fit ag'in. Come near spilin'the wagon. Hed to stop and fix the ex. 10 mild.AUGUST 22 Clumb a tree this morning after wild grapes. Come nearfalling. Gin me a little crick in the back. Willie hes got a stun bruze.12 mild.AUGUST 23 Went in swinmun. Ketched a few fish before breakfus'. Gotprovisions an' two case knives an' one fork, also one tin pie-plate.Used same to fry fish for dinner. 14 mild.AUGUST 24 Got some spirits for Willie to rub on my back. Boots wearingout. Terrible hot. Lay in the shade in the heat of the day. Gypsies comean' camped by us tonight. 10 mild.I remember well the coming of those gypsies. We were fishing in sight ofthe road and our fire was crackling on the smooth cropped shore. The bigwagons of the gypsies--there were four of them as red and beautiful asthose of a circus caravan--halted about sundown while the men came overa moment to scan the field. Presently they went back and turned theirwagons into the siding and began to unhitch. Then a lot of barefootedchildren, and women under gay shawls, overran the field gathering woodand making ready for night. Meanwhile swarthy drivers took the horses towater and tethered them with long ropes so they could crop the grass ofthe roadside.One tall, bony man, with a face almost as black as that of an Indian,brought a big iron pot and set it up near the water. A big stew of beefbone, leeks and potatoes began to cook shortly, and I remember it hadsuch a goodly smell I was minded to ask them for a taste of it. A littlecity of strange people had surrounded us of a sudden. Uncle Eb thoughtof going on, but the night was coming fast and there would be no moonand we were footsore and hungry. Women and children came over to ourfire, after supper, and made more of me than I liked. I remember takingrefuge between the knees of Uncle Eb, and Fred sat close in front ofus growling fiercely when they came too near. They stood about, lookingdown at us and whispered together, and one young miss of the tribe cameup and tried to kiss me in spite of Fred's warnings: She had flashingblack eyes and hair as dark as the night, that fell in a curling massupon her shoulders; but, somehow, I had a mighty fear of her and foughtwith desperation to keep my face from the touch of her red lips. UncleEb laughed and held Fred by the collar, and I began to cry out interror, presently, when, to my great relief, she let go and ran away toher own people. They all went away to their wagons, save one young man,who was tall with light hair and a fair skin, and who looked like noneof the other gypsies.'Take care of yourself,' he whispered, as soon as the rest had gone.'These are bad people. You'd better be off.'The young man left us and Uncle Eb began to pack up at once. They weregoing to bed in their wagons when we came away. I stood in the basketand Fred drew the wagon that had in it only a few bundles. A mile ormore further on we came to a lonely, deserted cabin close to the road.It had began to thunder in the distance and the wind was blowing damp.'Guess nobody lives here,' said Uncle Eb as he turned in at the sagginggate and began to cross the little patch of weeds and hollyhocks behindit 'Door's half down, but I guess it'll de better'n no house. Goin' t'rain sartin.'I was nodding a little about then, I remember; but I was wide awake whenhe took me out of the basket The old house stood on a high hill, andwe could see the stars of heaven through the ruined door and one of theback windows. Uncle Eb lifted the leaning door a little and shoved itaside. We heard then a quick stir in the old house--a loud and ghostlyrattle it seems now as I think of it--like that made by linen shaking onthe line. Uncle Eb took a step backward as if it had startled him.'Guess it's nuthin' to be 'fraid of;' he said, feeling in the pet of hiscoat He had struck a match in a moment. By its flickering light I couldsee only a bit of rubbish on the floor.'Full o' white owls,' said he, stepping inside, where the rustling wasnow continuous. 'They'll do us no harm.'I could see them now flying about under the low ceiling. Uncle Ebgathered an armful of grass and clover, in the near field, and spread itin a corner well away from the ruined door and windows. Covered with ourblanket it made a fairly comfortable bed. Soon as we had lain down,the rain began to rattle on the shaky roof and flashes of lightning litevery corner of the old room.I have had, ever, a curious love of storms, and, from the time whenmemory began its record in my brain, it has delighted me to hear atnight the roar of thunder and see the swift play of the lightning. Ilay between Uncle Eb and the old dog, who both went asleep shortly.Less wearied I presume than either of them, for I had done none of thecarrying, and had slept along time that day in the shade of a tree, Iwas awake an hour or more after they were snoring. Every flash lit theold room like the full glare of the noonday sun. I remember it showed mean old cradle, piled full of rubbish, a rusty scythe hung in the rottingsash of a window, a few lengths of stove-pipe and a plough in onecorner, and three staring white owls that sat on a beam above thedoorway. The rain roared on the old roof shortly, and came dripping downthrough the bare boards above us. A big drop struck in my face and Imoved a little. Then I saw what made me hold my breath a moment andcover my head with the shawl. A flash of lightning revealed a tall,ragged man looking in at the doorway. I lay close to Uncle Eb imaginingmuch evil of that vision but made no outcry.Snugged in between my two companions I felt reasonably secure and soonfell asleep. The sun, streaming in at the open door, roused me in themorning. At the beginning of each day of our journey I woke to findUncle Eb cooking at the fire. He was lying beside me, this morning, hiseyes open.'Fraid I'm hard sick,' he said as I kissed him.'What's the matter?' I enquired.He struggled to a sitting posture, groaning so it went to my heart.'Rheumatiz,' he answered presently.He got to his feet, little by little, and every move he made gave himgreat pain. With one hand on his cane and the other on my shoulder hemade his way slowly to the broken gate. Even now I can see clearly thefair prospect of that high place--a valley reaching to distant hills anda river winding through it, glimmering in the sunlight; a long woodedledge breaking into naked, grassy slopes on one side of the valley andon the other a deep forest rolling to the far horizon; between them bigpatches of yellow grain and white buckwheat and green pasture land andgreener meadows and the straight road, with white houses on either sideof it, glorious in a double fringe of golden rod and purple aster andyellow John's-wort and the deep blue of the Jacob's ladder.'Looks a good deal like the promised land,' said Uncle Eb. 'Hain't gotmuch further t' go.'He sat on the rotting threshold while I pulled some of the weeds infront of the doorstep and brought kindlings out of the house and built afire. While we were eating I told Uncle Eb of the man that I had seen inthe night.'Guess you was dreamin',' he said, and, while I stood firm for thereality of that I had seen, it held our thought only for a brief moment.My companion was unable to walk that day so we lay by, in the shelter ofthe old house, eating as little of our scanty store as we could dowith. I went to a spring near by for water and picked a good mess ofblackberries that I hid away until supper time, so as to surprise UncleEb. A longer day than that we spent in the old house, after our coming,I have never known. I made the room a bit tidier and gathered more grassfor bedding. Uncle Eb felt better as the day grew warm. I had a busytime of it that morning bathing his back in the spirits and rubbinguntil my small arms ached. I have heard him tell often how vigorouslyI worked that day and how I would say: 'I'll take care o' you, UncleEb--won't I, Uncle Eb?' as my little hands flew with redoubled energy onhis bare skin. That finished we lay down sleeping until the sun was low,when I made ready the supper that took the last of everything we had toeat. Uncle Eb was more like himself that evening and, sitting up in thecorner, as the darkness came, told me the story of Squirreltown and FrogFerry, which came to be so great a standby in those days that, even now,I can recall much of the language in which he told it.'Once,' he said, 'there was a boy thet hed two grey squirrels in a cage.They kep' thinkin' o' the time they used t' scamper in the tree-tops an'make nests an' eat all the nuts they wanted an' play I spy in the thickleaves. An they grew poor an' looked kind o' ragged an' sickly an'downhearted. When he brought 'em outdoors they used t' look up in thetrees an' run in the wire wheel as if they thought they could get theresometime if they kep' goin'. As the boy grew older he see it was cruelto keep 'em shet in a cage, but he'd hed em a long time an' couldn'tbear t' give 'em up.'One day he was out in the woods a little back o' the clearin'. All t'once he heard a swift holler. 'Twas nearby an' echoed so he couldn'ttell which way it come from. He run fer home but the critter ketched 'imbefore he got out o' the woods an' took 'im into a cave, an' give 'im t'the little swifts t' play with. The boy cried terrible. The swifts theylaughed an' nudged each other.'"O ain't he cute!" says one. "He's a beauty!" says another. "Cur'us howhe can git along without any fur," says the mother swift, as she run ernose over 'is bare foot. He thought of 'is folks waitin' fer him an' hebegged em t' let 'im go. Then they come an' smelt 'im over.'"Yer sech a cunnin' critter," says the mother swift, "we couldn't spareye."'"Want to see my mother," says the boy sobbing.'"Couldn't afford t' let ye go--yer so cute," says the swift. "Bring thepoor critter a bone an' a bit o' snake meat."'The boy couldn't eat. They fixed a bed fer him, but 'twant clean. Thefeel uv it made his back ache an' the smell uv it made him sick to hisstomach.'"When the swifts hed comp'ny they 'd bring 'em overt' look at him there'n his dark corner." "S a boy," said the mother swift pokin' him with along stick "Wouldn't ye like t' see 'im run?" Then she punched him untilhe got up an' run 'round the cave fer his life. Happened one day et avery benevolent swift come int' the cave.'"'S a pity t' keep the boy here," said he; "he looks bad."'"But he makes fun fer the children," said the swift.'"Fun that makes misery is only fit fer a fool," said the visitor.'They let him go thet day. Soon as he got hum he thought o' thesquirrels an' was tickled t' find 'em alive. He tak 'em off to anisland, in the middle of a big lake, thet very day, an' set the cage onthe shore n' opened it He thought he would come back sometime an' seehow they was ginin' along. The cage was made of light wire an' hed atin bottom fastened to a big piece o' plank. At fust they was 'fraid t'leave it an' peeked out o' the door an' scratched their heads's if theythought it a resky business. After awhile one stepped out careful an'then the other followed. They tried t' climb a tree, but their nails waswore off an' they kep' fallin' back. Then they went off 'n the brush t'find some nuts. There was only pines an' poppies an' white birch an' afew berry bushes on the island. They went t' the water's edge on everyside, but there was nuthin there a squirrel ud give a flirt uv histail fer. 'Twas near dark when they come back t' the cage hungry as tewbears. They found a few crumbs o' bread in the cup an' divided 'em even.Then they went t' bed 'n their ol' nest.'It hed been rainin' a week in the mount'ins. Thet night the lake rosea foot er more an' 'fore mornin' the cage begun t' rock a teenty bit asthe water lifted the plank. They slep' all the better fer thet an' theydreamed they was up in a tree at the end uv a big bough. The cage begunt' sway sideways and then it let go o' the shore an' spun 'round once ertwice an' sailed out 'n the deep water. There was a light breeze blowin'offshore an' purty soon it was pitchin' like a ship in the sea. But thetwo squirrels was very tired an' never woke up 'til sunrise. They got aterrible scare when they see the water 'round 'em an' felt the motiono' the ship. Both on 'em ran into the wire wheel an' that bore down thestern o' the ship so the under wires touched the water. They made itspin like a buzz saw an' got their clothes all wet. The ship went fasterwhen they worked the wheel, an' bime bye they got tired an' come outon the main deck. The water washed over it a little so they clim up theroof thet was a kin' uv a hurricane deck. It made the ship sway an' rockfearful but they hung on 'midships, an' clung t' the handle that stuckup like a top mast. Their big tails was spread over their shoulders,an' the wind rose an' the ship went faster 'n faster. They could see themain shore where the big woods come down t' the water 'n' all the whileit kep' a comin' nearer 'n' nearer. But they was so hungry didn't seempossible they could live to git there.'Ye know squirrels are a savin' people. In the day o' plenty they thinko' the day o' poverty an' lay by fer it. All at once one uv 'em thoughtuv a few kernels o' corn, he hed pushed through a little crack in thetin floor one day a long time ago. It happened there was quite a holeunder the crack an' each uv 'em bad stored some kernels unbeknown t'the other. So they hed a good supper 'n' some left fer a bite 'n themornin'. 'Fore daylight the ship made her pott 'n' lay to, 'side liv alog in a little cove. The bullfrogs jumped on her main deck an' begunt' holler soon as she hove to: "all ashore! all ashore! all ashore!" Thetwo squirrels woke up but lay quiet 'til the sun rose. Then they comeout on the log 'et looked like a long dock an' run ashore 'n' foun' someo' their own folks in the bush. An' when they bed tol' their story theol' father o' the tribe got up 'n a tree an' hollered himself hoarsepreachin' 'bout how 't paid t' be savin'.'"An' we should learn t' save our wisdom es well es our nuts," said asassy brother; "fer each needs his own wisdom fer his own affairs."'An the little ship went back 'n' forth 'cross the cove as the win'blew. The squirrels hed many a fine ride in her an' the frogs were theferrymen. An' all 'long thet shore 'twas known es Frog Ferry 'mong thesquirrel folks.'It was very dark when he finished the tale an' as we lay gaping a fewminutes after my last query about those funny people of the lake marginI could hear nothing but the chirping of the crickets. I was feelinga bit sleepy when I heard the boards creak above our heads. Uncle Eliraised himself and lay braced upon his elbow listening. In a few momentswe heard a sound as of someone coming softly down the ladder at theother end of the room. It was so dark I could see nothing.'Who's there?' Uncle Eb demanded.'Don't p'int thet gun at me,' somebody whispered. 'This is my home and Iwarn ye t' leave it er I'll do ye harm.'Chapter 5Here I shall quote you again from the diary of Uncle Eb. 'It was so darkI couldn't see a han' before me. "Don't p'int yer gun at me," the manwhispered. Thought 'twas funny he could see me when I couldn't see him.Said 'twas his home an' we'd better leave. Tol him I was sick (rumatiz)an' couldn't stir. Said he was sorry an' come over near us. Tol' him Iwas an' ol' man goin' west with a small boy. Stopped in the rain. Gotsick. Out o' purvisions. 'Bout ready t' die. Did'n know what t' do.Started t' stike a match an' the man said don't make no light cos Idon't want to hev ye see my face. Never let nobody see my face. Said henever went out 'less 'twas a dark night until folks was abed. Said welooked like good folks. Scairt me a little cos we couldn't see a thing.Also he said don't be 'fraid of me. Do what I can fer ye.'I remember the man crossed the creaking floor and sat down near us afterhe had parleyed with Uncle Eb awhile in whispers. Young as I was I keepa vivid impression of that night and, aided by the diary of Uncle Eb, Ihave made a record of what was said that is, in the main, accurate.'Do you know where you are?' he enquired presently, whispering as he haddone before.'I've no idee,' said Uncle Eb.'Well, down the hill is Paradise Valley in the township o' Faraway,'he continued. 'It's the end o' Paradise Road an' a purty country. Beensettled a long time an' the farms are big an' prosperous--kind uv a lando' plenty. That big house at the foot o' the hill is Dave Brower's. He'sthe richest man in the valley.''How do you happen t' be livin' here?--if ye don't min' tellin' me,'Uncle Eb asked.'Crazy,' said he; ''fraid uv everybody an' everybody's 'fraid o' me.Lived a good long time in this way. Winters I go into the big woods. Gota camp in a big cave an' when I'm there I see a little daylight. Here 'nthe clearin' I'm only up in the night-time. Thet's how I've come to seeso well in the dark. It's give me cat's eyes.''Don't ye git lonesome?' Uncle Eb asked.'Awful--sometimes,' he answered with a sad sigh, 'an' it seems good t'talk with somebody besides myself. I get enough to eat generally. Thereare deer in the woods an' cows in the fields, ye know, an' potatoes an'corn an' berries an' apples, an' all thet kind o' thing. Then I've gotmy traps in the woods where I ketch partridges, an' squirrels an' coonsan' all the meat I need. I've got a place in the thick timber t' do mycookin'--all I want t' do--in the middle of the night Sometimes I comehere an' spend a day in the garret if I'm caught in a storm or if Ihappen to stay a little too late in the valley. Once in a great whileI meet a man somewhere in the open but he always gits away quick as hecan. Guess they think I'm a ghost--dunno what I think o' them.'Our host went on talking as if he were glad to tell the secrets of hisheart to some creature of his own kind. I have often wondered at hisfrankness; but there was a fatherly tenderness, I remember in the voiceof Uncle Eb, and I judge it tempted his confidence. Probably the loveof companionship can never be so dead in a man but that the voice ofkindness may call it back to life again.'I'll bring you a bite t' eat before morning,' he said, presently, as herose to go, 'leet me feel o' your han', mister.'Uncle Eb gave him his hand and thanked him.'Feels good. First I've hed hold of in a long time,' he whispered.'What's the day o' the month?''The twenty-fifth.''I must remember. Where did you come from?'Uncle Eb told him, briefly, the story of our going west'Guess you'd never do me no harm--would ye?' the man asked. 'Not a bit,'Uncle Eb answered.Then he bade us goodbye, crossed the creaking floor and went away in thedarkness.'Sing'lar character!' Uncle Eb muttered.I was getting drowsy and that was the last I heard. In the morning wefound a small pail of milk sitting near us, a roasted partridge, twofried fish and some boiled potatoes. It was more than enough to carryus through the day with a fair allowance for Fred. Uncle Eb was a bitbetter but very lame at that and kept to his bed the greater part of theday. The time went slow with me I remember. Uncle Eb was not cheerfuland told me but one story and that had no life in it. At dusk he let mego out in the road to play awhile with Fred and the wagon, but came tothe door and called us in shortly. I went to bed in a rather unhappyframe of mind. The dog roused me by barking in the middle of the rightand I heard again the familiar whisper of the stranger.'Sh-h-h! be still, dog,' he whispered; but I was up to my ears in sleepand went under shortly, so I have no knowledge of what passed thatnight. Uncle Eb tells in his diary that he had a talk with him lastingmore than an hour, but goes no further and never seemed willing to talkmuch about that interview or others that followed it.I only know the man had brought more milk and fish and fowl for us. Westayed another day in the old house, that went like the last, and thenight man came again to see Uncle Eb. The next morning my companion wasable to walk more freely, but Fred and I had to stop and wait for himvery often going down the big hill. I was mighty glad when we wereleaving the musty old house for good and had the dog hitched withall our traps in the wagon. It was a bright morning and the sunlightglimmered on the dew in the broad valley. The men were just coming frombreakfast when we turned in at David Brower's. A barefooted little girla bit older than I, with red cheeks and blue eyes and long curly hair,that shone like gold in the sunlight, came running out to meet us andled me up to the doorstep, highly amused at the sight of Fred and thewagon. I regarded her with curiosity and suspicion at first, while UncleEb was talking with the men. I shall never forget that moment when DavidBrower came and lifted me by the shoulders, high above his head, andshook me as if to test my mettle. He led me into the house then wherehis wife was working.'What do you think of this small bit of a boy?' he asked.She had already knelt on the floor and put her arms about my neck andkissed me.'Am' no home,' said he. 'Come all the way from Vermont with an ol' man.They're worn out both uv 'em. Guess we'd better take 'em in awhile.''O yes, mother--please, mother,' put in the little girl who was holdingmy hand. 'He can sleep with me, mother. Please let him stay.'She knelt beside me and put her arms around my little shoulders and drewme to her breast and spoke to me very tenderly.'Please let him stay,' the girl pleaded again.'David,' said the woman, 'I couldn't turn the little thing away. Won'tye hand me those cookies.'And so our life began in Paradise Valley. Ten minutes later I wasplaying my first game of 'I spy' with little Hope Brower, among thefragrant stooks of wheat in the field back of the garden.Chapter 6The lone pine stood in Brower's pasture, just clear of the woods. Whenthe sun rose, one could see its taper shadow stretching away to thefoot of Woody Ledge, and at sunset it lay like a fallen mast athwartthe cow-paths, its long top arm a flying pennant on the side of Bowman'sHill. In summer this bar of shadow moved like a clock-hand on the greendial of the pasture, and the help could tell the time by the slantof it. Lone Pine had a mighty girth at the bottom, and its bare bodytapered into the sky as straight as an arrow. Uncle Eb used to say thatits one long, naked branch that swung and creaked near the top of it,like a sign of hospitality on the highway of the birds, was two hundredfeet above ground. There were a few stubs here and there upon itsshaft--the roost of crows and owls and hen-hawks. It must have passedfor a low resort in the feathered kingdom because it was only therobbers of the sky that halted on Lone Pine.This towering shaft of dead timber commemorated the ancient forestthrough which the northern Yankees cut their trails in the beginning ofthe century. They were a tall, big fisted, brawny lot of men who cameacross the Adirondacks from Vermont, and began to break the green canopythat for ages had covered the valley of the St Lawrence. Generally theydrove a cow with them, and such game as they could kill on the journeysupplemented their diet of 'pudding and milk'. Some settled where thewagon broke or where they had buried a member of the family, and therethey cleared the forests that once covered the smooth acres of today.Gradually the rough surface of the trail grew smoother until it becameParadise Road--the well-worn thoroughfare of the stagecoach with its'inns and outs', as the drivers used to say--the inns where the 'menfolks' sat in the firelight of the blazing logs after supper andtold tales of adventure until bedtime, while the women sat with theirknitting in the parlour, and the young men wrestled in the stableyard.The men of middle age had stooped and massive shoulders, anddeep-furrowed brows: Tell one of them he was growing old and he mightanswer you by holding his whip in front of him and leaping over itbetween his hands.There was a little clearing around that big pine tree when David Browersettled in the valley. Its shadows shifting in the light of sun andmoon, like the arm of a compass, swept the spreading acres of his farm,and he built his house some forty rods from the foot of it on higherground. David was the oldest of thirteen children. His father had diedthe year before he came to St Lawrence county, leaving him nothing butheavy responsibilities. Fortunately, his great strength and his kindlynature were equal to the burden. Mother and children were landed safelyin their new home on Bowman's Hill the day that David was eighteen. Ihave heard the old folks of that country tell what a splendid figure ofa man he was those days--six feet one in his stockings and broad at theshoulder. His eyes were grey and set under heavy brows. I have neverforgotten the big man that laid hold of me and the broad clean-shavenserious face, that looked into mine the day I came to Paradise Valley.As I write I can see plainly his dimpled chin, his large nose, his firmmouth that was the key to his character. 'Open or shet,' I have heardthe old folks say, 'it showed he was no fool.'After two years David took a wife and settled in Paradise Valley. Heprospered in a small way considered handsome thereabouts. In a few yearshe had cleared the rich acres of his farm to the sugar bush that was thenorth vestibule of the big forest; he had seen the clearing widen untilhe could discern the bare summits of the distant hills, and, far ashe could see, were the neat white houses of the settlers. Children hadcome, three of them--the eldest a son who had left home and died in afar country long before we came to Paradise Valley--the youngest a baby.I could not have enjoyed my new home more if I had been born in it. Ihad much need of a mother's tenderness, no doubt, for I remember withwhat a sense of peace and comfort I lay on the lap of Elizabeth Brower,that first evening, and heard her singing as she rocked. The littledaughter stood at her knees, looking down at me and patting my bare toesor reaching over to feel my face.'God sent him to us--didn't he, mother?' said she.'Maybe,' Mrs Brower answered, 'we'll be good to him, anyway.'Then that old query came into my mind. I asked them if it was heavenwhere we were.'No,' they answered.''Tain't anywhere near here, is it?' I went on.Then she told me about the gate of death, and began sowing in me theseed of God's truth--as I know now the seed of many harvests. I sleptwith Uncle Eb in the garret, that night, and for long after we came tothe Brower's. He continued to get better, and was shortly able to givehis hand to the work of the farm.There was room for all of us in that ample wilderness of hisimagination, and the cry of the swift woke its echoes every evening fora time. Bears and panthers prowled in the deep thickets, but the swiftstook a firmer grip on us, being bolder and more terrible. Uncle Ebbecame a great favourite in the family, and David Brower came to knowsoon that he was 'a good man to work' and could be trusted 'to lookafter things'. We had not been there long when I heard Elizabeth speakof Nehemiah--her lost son--and his name was often on the lips of others.He was a boy of sixteen when he went away, and I learned no more of himuntil long afterwards.A month or more after we came to Faraway, I remember we went 'cross lotsin a big box wagon to the orchard on the hill and gathered apples thatfell in a shower when Uncle Eb went up to shake them down. Then cane theraw days of late October, when the crows went flying southward beforethe wind--a noisy pirate fleet that filled the sky at times--and when weall put on our mittens and went down the winding cow-paths to the groveof butternuts in the pasture. The great roof of the wilderness hadturned red and faded into yellow. Soon its rafters began to showthrough, and then, in a day or two, they were all bare but for somepatches of evergreen. Great, golden drifts of foliage lay higher thana man's head in the timber land about the clearing. We had our best funthen, playing 'I spy' in the groves.In that fragrant deep of leaves one might lie undiscovered a long time.He could hear roaring like that of water at every move of the finder,wallowing nearer and nearer possibly, in his search. Old Fred camegenerally rooting his way to us in the deep drift with unerringaccuracy.And shortly winter came out of the north and, of a night, after rappingat the windows and howling in the chimney and roaring in the big woods,took possession of the earth. That was a time when hard cider flowedfreely and recollection found a ready tongue among the older folk, andthe young enjoyed many diversions, including measles and whooping cough.Chapter 7I had a lot of fun that first winter, but none that I can remember moregratefully than our trip in the sledgehouse--a tight little housefitted and fastened to a big sledge. Uncle Eb had to go to mill atHillsborough, some twelve miles away, and Hope and I, after muchcoaxing and many family counsels, got leave to go with him. The sky wascloudless, and the frosty air was all aglow in the sunlight that morningwe started. There was a little sheet iron stove in one corner of thesledgehouse, walled in with zinc and anchored with wires; a layer ofhay covered the floor and over that we spread our furs and blankets. Thehouse had an open front, and Uncle Eb sat on the doorstep, as it were,to drive, while we sat behind him on the blankets.'I love you very much,' said Hope, embracing me, after we were seated.Her affection embarrassed me, I remember. It seemed unmanly to be pettedlike a doll.'I hate to be kissed,' I said, pulling away from her, at which Uncle Eblaughed heartily.The day came when I would have given half my life for the words I heldso cheaply then.'You'd better be good t' me,' she answered, 'for when mother dies I'mgoin' t' take care o' you. Uncle Eb and Gran'ma Bisnette an' you an'everybody I love is goin' t' come an' live with me in a big, big house.An' I'm goin' t' put you t' bed nights an' hear ye say yer prayers aneverything.''Who'll do the spankin?' Uncle Eb asked.'My husban',' she answered, with a sigh at the thought of all thetrouble that lay before her.'An' I'll make him rub your back, too, Uncle Eb,' she added. 'Wall, Irather guess he'll object to that,' said he.'Then you can give 'ins five cents, an' I guess he'll be glad t' do it,'she answered promptly.'Poor man! He won't know whether he's runnin' a poorhouse er a hospital,will he?' said Uncle Eb. 'Look here, children,' he added, taking out hisold leather wallet, as he held the reins between his knees. 'Here's tewshillin' apiece for ye, an' I want ye t' spend it jest eggsackly as yeplease.' The last words were spoken slowly and with emphasis.We took the two silver pieces that he handed to us and looked them allover and compared them.'I know what I'll do,' said she, suddenly. 'I'm goin' t' buy my mother anew dress, or mebbe a beautiful ring,' she added thoughtfully.For my own part I did not know what I should buy. I wanted a real gunmost of all and my inclination oscillated between that and a red rockinghorse. My mind was very busy while I sat in silence. Presently I roseand went to Uncle Eb and whispered in his ear.'Do you think I could get a real rifle with two shilin'?' I enquiredanxiously.'No,' he answered in a low tone that seemed to respect my confidence.'Bime by, when you're older, I'll buy ye a rifle--a real rip snorter,too, with a shiny barrel 'n a silver lock. When ye get down t, thevillage ye'll see lots o' things y'd rather hev, prob'ly. If I was you,children,' he added, in a louder tone, 'I wouldn't buy a thing but nuts'n' raisins.''Nuts 'n' raisins!' Hope exclaimed, scornfully.'Nuts 'n' raisins,' he repeated. 'They're cheap 'n' satisfyin'. If yeeat enough uv 'em you'll never want anything else in this world.'I failed to see the irony in Uncle Eb's remark and the suggestion seemedto have a good deal of merit, the more I thought it over.''T any rate,' said Uncle Eb, 'I'd git somethin' fer my own selves.''Well,' said Hope, 'You tell us a lot o' things we could buy.''Less see!' said Uncle Eb, looking very serious. 'There's bootjacks an'there's warmin' pans 'n' mustard plasters 'n' liver pads 'n' all themkind o' things.'We both shook our heads very doubtfully.'Then,' he added, 'there are jimmyjacks 'n' silver no nuthin's.'There were many other suggestions but none of them were decisive.The snow lay deep on either side of the way and there was a glimmer onevery white hillside where Jack Frost had sown his diamonds. Here andthere a fox track crossed the smooth level of the valley and dwindled onthe distant hills like a seam in a great white robe. It grew warmer asthe sun rose, and we were a jolly company behind the merry jingle of thesleigh bells. We had had a long spell of quiet weather and the road layin two furrows worn as smooth as ice at the bottom.'Consarn it!' said Uncle Eb looking up at the sky, after we had been onthe road an hour or so. 'There's a sun dog. Wouldn't wonder if we got asnowstorm' fore night.I was running behind the sledge and standing on the brake hooks goingdownhill. He made me get in when he saw the sun dog, and let ourhorse--a rat-tailed bay known as Old Doctor--go at a merry pace.We were awed to silence when we came in sight of Hillsborough, withspires looming far into the sky, as it seemed to me then, and buildingsthat bullied me with their big bulk, so that I had no heart for thespending of the two shillings Uncle Eb had given me. Such sublimityof proportion I have never seen since; and yet it was all very smallindeed. The stores had a smell about them that was like chloroform inits effect upon me; for, once in them, I fell into a kind of tranceand had scarce sense enough to know my own mind. The smart clerks, whogenerally came and asked, 'Well, young man, what can I do for you?' Iregarded with fear and suspicion. I clung the tighter to my coin always,and said nothing, although I saw many a trinket whose glitter went tomy soul with a mighty fascination. We both stood staring silently at theshow cases, our tongues helpless with awe and wonder. Finally, after awhispered conference, Hope asked for a 'silver no nothing', and provokedso much laughter that we both fled to the sidewalk. Uncle Eb had to doour buying for us in the end.'Wall, what'll ye hev?' he said to me at length.I tried to think-it was no easy thing to do after all I had seen.'Guess I'll take a jacknife,' I whispered.'Give this boy a knife,' he demanded. 'Wants t' be good 'n sharp. Mighthev t' skin a swift with it sometime.''What ye want?' he asked, then turning to Hope.'A doll,' she whispered.'White or black?' said he.'White,' said she, 'with dark eyes and hair.''Want a reel, splendid, firs'-class doll,' he said to the clerk. 'Thetone'll do, there, with the sky-blue dress 'n the pink apron.'We were worn out with excitement when we left for home under loweringskies. We children lay side by side under the robes, the doll betweenus, and were soon asleep. It was growing dark when Uncle Eb woke us,and the snow was driving in at the doorway. The air was full of snow, Iremember, and Old Doctor was wading to his knees in a drift. We were upin the hills and the wind whistled in our little chimney. Uncle Eb hada serious look in his face. The snow grew deeper and Old Doctor wentslower every moment.'Six mild from home,' Uncle Eb muttered, as he held up to rest a moment.'Six mild from home. 'Fraid we're in fer a night uv it.'We got to the top of Fadden's Hill about dark, and the snow lay so deepin the cut we all got out for fear the house would tip over. Old Doctorfloundered along a bit further until he went down in the drift and laybetween the shafts half buried. We had a shovel that always hung besidea small hatchet in the sledgehouse--for one might need much beside thegrace of God of a winter's day in that country--and with it Uncle Ebbegan to uncover the horse. We children stood in the sledgehouse doorwatching him and holding the lantern. Old Doctor was on his feet in afew minutes.''Tain' no use tryin',' said Uncle Eb, as he began to unhitch. 'Can't gono further t'night.'Then he dug away the snow beside the sledgehouse, and hitched Old Doctorto the horseshoe that was nailed to the rear end of it. That done, heclambered up the side of the cut and took some rails off the fence andshoved them over on the roof of the house, so that one end rested thereand the other on the high bank beside us. Then he cut a lot of hemlockboughs with the hatchet, and thatched the roof he had made over OldDoctor, binding them with the reins. Bringing more rails, he leaned themto the others on the windward side and nailed a big blanket over them,piecing it out with hemlock thatching, so it made a fairly comfortableshelter. We were under the wind in this deep cut on Fadden's Hill, andthe snow piled in upon us rapidly. We had a warm blanket for Old Doctorand two big buffalo robes for our own use. We gave him a good feed ofhay and oats, and then Uncle Eb cut up a fence rail with our hatchet andbuilt a roaring fire in the stove. We had got a bit chilly wading in thesnow, and the fire gave us a mighty sense of comfort.'I thought somethin' might happen,' said Uncle Eb, as he hung hislantern to the ridge pole and took a big paper parcel out of his greatcoat pocket. 'I thought mebbe somethin' might happen, an' so I broughtalong a bite o' luncheon.'He gave us dried herring and bread and butter and cheese.''S a little dry,' he remarked, while we were eating, 'but it's drierwhere there's none.'We had a pail of snow on top of the little stove and plenty of gooddrinking water for ourselves and the Old Doctor in a few minutes.After supper Uncle Eb went up the side of the cut and brought back a lotof hemlock boughs and spread them under Old Doctor for bedding.Then we all sat around the stove on the warm robes and listened to thewind howling above our little roof and the stories of Uncle Eb. Thehissing of the snow as it beat upon the sledgehouse grew fainter by andby, and Uncle Eb said he guessed we were pretty well covered up. We fellasleep soon. I remember he stopped in the middle of a wolf story, and,seeing that our eyes were shut, pulled us back from the fire a littleand covered us with one of the robes. It had been a mighty strugglebetween Sleep and Romance, and Sleep had won. I roused myself andbegged him to go on with the story, but he only said, 'Hush, boy; it'sbedtime,' and turned up the lantern and went out of doors. I woke onceor twice in the night and saw him putting wood on the fire. He had putout the light. The gleam of the fire shone on his face when he openedthe stove door.'Gittin' a leetle cool here, Uncle Eb,' he was saying to himself.We were up at daylight, and even then it was snowing and blowingfiercely. There were two feet of snow on the sledgehouse roof, and wewere nearly buried in the bank. Uncle Eb had to do a lot of shovelingto get out of doors and into the stable. Old Doctor was quite out of thewind in a cave of snow and nickering for his breakfast. There was plentyfor him, but we were on short rations. Uncle Eb put on the snow shoes,after we had eaten what there was left, and, cautioning us to keep in,set out for Fadden's across lots. He came back inside of an hour with agood supply of provisions in a basket on his shoulder. The wind had gonedown and the air was milder. Big flakes of snow came fluttering slowlydownward out of a dark sky. After dinner we went up on top of thesledgehouse and saw a big scraper coming in the valley below. Six teamsof oxen were drawing it, and we could see the flying furrows on eitherside of the scraper as it ploughed in the deep drifts. Uncle Eb put onthe snow shoes again, and, with Hope on his back and me clinging to hishand, he went down to meet them and to tell of our plight. The frontteam had wallowed to their ears, and the men were digging them out withshovels when we got to the scraper. A score of men and boys clung to thesides of that big, hollow wedge, and put their weight on it as the oxenpulled. We got on with the others, I remember, and I was swept off assoon as the scraper started by a roaring avalanche of snow that camedown upon our heads and buried me completely. I was up again and hada fresh hold in a jiffy, and clung to my place until I was nearlysmothered by the flying snow. It was great fun for me, and they wereall shouting and hallooing as if it were a fine holiday. They made slowprogress, however, and we left them shortly on their promise to try toreach us before night. If they failed to get through, one of themsaid he would drive over to Paradise Valley, if possible, and tell theBrowers we were all right.On our return, Uncle Eb began shoveling a tunnel in the cut. When we gotthrough to the open late in the afternoon we saw the scraper party goingback with their teams.'Guess they've gi'n up fer t'day,' said he. 'Snow's powerful deep downthere below the bridge. Mebbe we can get 'round to where the road'sclear by goin' 'cross lots. I've a good mind t' try it.'Then he went over in the field and picked a winding way down the hilltoward the river, while we children stood watching him. He came backsoon and took down a bit of the fence and harnessed Old Doctor andhitched him to the sledgehouse. The tunnel was just wide enough to letus through with a tight pinch here and there. The footing was rathersoft' and the horse had hard pulling. We went in the field, strugglingon afoot--we little people--while Uncle Eb led the horse. He had to stopfrequently to tunnel through a snowdrift, and at dusk we had only gothalf-way to the bridge from our cave in the cut. Of a sudden Old Doctorwent up to his neck in a wall of deep snow that seemed to cut us offcompletely. He struggled a moment, falling on his side and wrenchingthe shafts from the runners. Uncle Eb went to work vigorously with hisshovel and had soon cut a narrow box stall in the deep snow around OldDoctor. Just beyond the hill dipped sharply and down the slope we couldsee the stubble sticking through the shallow snow. 'We'll hev t' stopright where we are until mornin',' he said. 'It's mos' dark now.Our little house stood tilting forward about half-way down the hill, itsrunners buried in the snow. A few hundred yards below was a cliff wherethe shore fell to the river some thirty feet It had stopped snowing, andthe air had grown warmer, but the sky was dark We put nearly all the hayin the sledgehouse under Old Doctor and gave him the last of the oatsand a warm cover of blankets. Then Uncle Eb went away to the fence formore wood, while we spread the supper. He was very tired, I remember,and we all turned in for the night a short time after we had eaten. Thelittle stove was roaring like a furnace when we spread our blankets onthe sloping floor and lay down, our feet to the front, and drew the warmrobes over us. Uncle Eb, who had had no sleep the night before, beganto snore heavily before we children had stopped whispering. He was stillsnoring, and Hope sound asleep, when I woke in the night and heard therain falling on our little roof and felt the warm breath of the southwind. The water dripping from the eaves and falling far and near uponthe yielding snow had many voices. I was half-asleep when I heard anew noise under the sledge. Something struck the front corner of thesledgehouse--a heavy, muffled blow--and brushed the noisy boards. Then Iheard the timbers creak and felt the runners leaping over the soft snow.I remember it was like a dream of falling. I raised myself and staredabout me. We were slipping down the steep floor. The lantern, burningdimly under the roof, swung and rattled. Uncle Eb was up on his elbowstaring wildly. I could feel the jar and rush of the runners and therain that seemed to roar as it dashed into my face. Then, suddenly,the sledgehouse gave a great leap into the air and the grating of therunners ceased. The lantern went hard against the roof; there was amighty roar in my ears; then we heard a noise like thunder and felt theshock of a blow that set my back aching, and cracked the roof above ourheads. It was all still for a second; then we children began to cry, andUncle Eb staggered to his feet and lit the lantern that had gone out andthat had no globe, I remember, as he held it down to our faces.'Hush! Are you hurt?' he said, as he knelt before us. 'Git up now, seeif ye can stand.'We got to our feet, neither of us much the worse for what hadhappened--My knuckles were cut a bit by a splinter, and Hope had beenhit on the shins by the lantern globe as it fell.'By the Lord Harry!' said Uncle Eb, when he saw we were not hurt.'Wonder what hit us.'We followed him outside while he was speaking.'We've slid downhill,' he said. 'Went over the cliff. Went kerplunk inthe deep snow, er there'd have been nuthin' left uv us. Snow's meltin'jest as if it was July.'Uncle Eb helped us into our heavy coats, and then with a blanket overhis arm led us into the wet snow. We came out upon clear ice in amoment and picked our way along the lowering shore. At length Uncle Ebclambered up, pulling us up after him, one by one. Then he whistled toOld Doctor, who whinnied a quick reply. He left us standing together,the blanket over our heads, and went away in the dark whistling as hehad done before. We could hear Old Doctor answer as he came near, andpresently Uncle Eb returned leading the horse by the halter. Then heput us both on Old Doctor's back, threw the blanket over our heads,and started slowly for the road. We clung to each other as the horsestaggered in the soft snow, and kept our places with some aid fromUncle Eb. We crossed the fence presently, and then for a way it was hardgoing. We found fair footing after we had passed the big scraper, and,coming to a house a mile or so down the road called them out of bed. Itwas growing light and they made us comfortable around a big stove,and gave us breakfast. The good man of the house took us home in a bigsleigh after the chores were done. We met David Brower coming after us,and if we'd been gone a year we couldn't have received a warmer welcome.Chapter 8Of all that long season of snow, I remember most pleasantly the daysthat were sweetened with the sugar-making. When the sun was lifting hiscourse in the clearing sky, and March had got the temper of the lamb,and the frozen pulses of the forest had begun to stir, the great kettlewas mounted in the yard and all gave a hand to the washing of spouts andbuckets. Then came tapping time, in which I helped carry the buckets andtasted the sweet flow that followed the auger's wound. The woods weremerry with our shouts, and, shortly, one could hear the heart-beatof the maples in the sounding bucket. It was the reveille of spring.Towering trees shook down the gathered storms of snow and felt for thesunlight. The arch and shanty were repaired, the great iron kettle wasscoured and lifted to its place, and then came the boiling. It was agreat, an inestimable privilege to sit on the robes of faded fur, in theshanty, and hear the fire roaring under the kettle and smell the sweetodour of the boiling sap. Uncle Eb minded the shanty and the fire andthe woods rang with his merry songs. When I think of that phase of thesugaring, I am face to face with one of the greatest perils of my life.My foster father had consented to let me spend a night with Uncle Eb inthe shanty, and I was to sleep on the robes, where he would be besideme when he was not tending the fire. It had been a mild, bright day, andDavid came up with our supper at sunset. He sat talking with Uncle Ebfor an hour or so, and the woods were darkling when he went away.When he started on the dark trail that led to the clearing, I wonderedat his courage--it was so black beyond the firelight. While we sat aloneI plead for a story, but the thoughts of Uncle Eb had gone to roostearly in a sort of gloomy meditation.'Be still, my boy,' said he, 'an' go t' sleep. I ain't agoin' t' tell noyarns an' git ye all stirred up. Ye go t' sleep. Come mornin' we'll godown t' the brook an' see if we can't find a mink or tew 'n the traps.'I remember hearing a great crackling of twigs in the dark wood beforeI slept. As I lifted my head, Uncle Eb whispered, 'Hark!' and we bothlistened. A bent and aged figure came stalking into the firelight.His long white hair mingled with his beard and covered his coat collarbehind.'Don't be scairt,' said Uncle Eb. ''Tain' no bear. It's nuthin' but apoet.'I knew him for a man who wandered much and had a rhyme for everyone--akindly man with a reputation for laziness and without any home.'Bilin', eh?' said the poet'Bilin',' said Uncle Eb.'I'm bilin' over 'n the next bush,' said the poet, sitting down.'How's everything in Jingleville?' Uncle Eb enquired.Then the newcomer answered:   'Well, neighbour dear, in Jingleville    We live by faith but we eat our fill;    An' what w'u'd we do if it wa'n't fer prayer?    Fer we can't raise a thing but whiskers an' hair.''Cur'us how you can talk po'try,' said Uncle Eb. 'The only thing I'vegot agin you is them whiskers an' thet hair. 'Tain't Christian.'''Tain't what's on the head, but what's in it--thet's the importantthing,' said the poet. 'Did I ever tell ye what I wrote about thebirds?''Don' know's ye ever did,' said Uncle Eb, stirring his fire.'The boy'll like it, mebbe,' said he, taking a dirty piece of paper outof his pocket and holding it to the light.The poem interested me, young as I was, not less than the strange figureof the old poet who lived unknown in the backwoods, and who died, I daresay, with many a finer song in his heart. I remember how he stood inthe firelight and chanted the words in a sing-song tone. He gave us thatrude copy of the poem, and here it is:                      THE ROBIN'S WEDDING  Young robin red breast hed a beautiful nest an' he says to his love says he:  It's ready now on a rocking bough  In the top of a maple tree.  I've lined it with down an' the velvet brown on the waist of a bumble-bee.  They were married next day, in the land o' the hay, the lady bird an' he.  The bobolink came an' the wife o' the same  An' the lark an' the fiddle de dee.  An' the crow came down in a minister gown--there was nothing    that he didn't see.  He fluttered his wing as they ast him to sing an' he tried fer t' clear      out his throat;  He hemmed an' he hawed an' be hawked an' he cawed  But he couldn't deliver a note.  The swallow was there an' he ushered each pair with his linsey an'      claw hammer coat.  The bobolink tried fer t' flirt with the bride in a way thet was sassy      an' bold.  An' the notes that he took as he shivered an' shook  Hed a sound like the jingle of gold.  He sat on a briar an' laughed at the choir an' said thet the music was old.  The sexton he came--Mr Spider by name--a citizen hairy and grey.  His rope in a steeple, he called the good people  That live in the land o' the hay.  The ants an' the squgs an' the crickets an' bugs--came out in a      mighty array.  Some came down from Barleytown an' the neighbouring city o' Rye.  An' the little black people they climbed every steeple  An' sat looking up at the sky.  They came fer t' see what a wedding might be an' they     furnished the cake an' the pie.I remember he turned to me when he had finished and took one of my smallhands and held it in his hard palm and looked at it and then into myface.'Ah, boy!' he said, 'your way shall lead you far from here, and youshall get learning and wealth and win--victories.''What nonsense are you talking, Jed Ferry?' said Uncle Eb.'O, you all think I'm a fool an' a humbug, 'cos I look it. Why, EbenHolden, if you was what ye looked, ye'd be in the presidential chair.Folks here 'n the valley think o' nuthin' but hard work--most uv 'em,an' I tell ye now this boy ain't a goin' t' be wuth putty on a farm.Look a' them slender hands.'There was a man come to me the other day an' wanted t' hev a poem 'bouthis wife that hed jes' died. I ast him t' tell me all 'bout her.'"Wall," said he, after he had scratched his head an' thought a minute,"she was a dretful good woman t' work."'"Anything else?" I asked.'He thought agin fer a minute.'"Broke her leg once," he said, "an' was laid up fer more'n a year.""Must o' suffered," said I.'"Not then," he answered. "Ruther enjoyed it layin' abed an' readin' an'bein' rubbed, but 'twas hard on the children."'"S'pose ye loved her," I said.'Then the tears come into his eyes an' he couldn't speak fer a minute.Putty soon he whispered "Yes" kind o' confidential. 'Course he lovedher, but these Yankees are ashamed o' their feelin's. They hev tenderthoughts, but they hide 'em as careful as the wild goose hides her eggs.I wrote a poem t' please him, an' goin' home I made up one fer myself,an 'it run 'bout like this:  O give me more than a life, I beg,  That finds real joy in a broken leg.  Whose only thought is t' work an' save  An' whose only rest is in the grave.  Saving an' scrimping from day to day  While its best it has squandered an' flung away  Fer a life like that of which I tell  Would rob me quite o' the dread o' hell.'Toil an' slave an' scrimp an' save--thet's 'bout all we think uv 'nthis country. 'Tain't right, Holden.''No, 'tain't right,' said Uncle Eb.'I know I'm a poor, mis'rable critter. Kind o' out o' tune witheverybody I know. Alwus quarrelled with my own folks, an' now I ain'tgot any home. Someday I'm goin' t' die in the poorhouse er on the groundunder these woods. But I tell ye'--here he spoke in a voice that grewloud with feeling--'mebbe I've been lazy, as they say, but I've got moreout o' my life than any o' these fools. And someday God'll honour me farabove them. When my wife an' I parted I wrote some lines that say wellmy meaning. It was only a log house we had, but this will show whatI got out of it.' Then he spoke the lines, his voice trembling withemotion.  'O humble home! Thou hadst a secret door  Thro' which I looked, betimes, with wondering eye  On treasures that no palace ever wore  But now--goodbye!  In hallowed scenes what feet have trod thy stage!  The babe, the maiden, leaving home to wed  The young man going forth by duty led  And faltering age.  Thou hadst a magic window broad and high  The light and glory of the morning shone  Thro' it, however dark the day had grown,  Or bleak the sky.'I know Dave Brower's folks hev got brains an' decency, but when thetboy is old enough t' take care uv himself, let him git out o' thiscountry. I tell ye he'll never make a farmer, an' if he marries an'settles down here he'll git t' be a poet, mebbe, er some such shif'lesscuss, an' die in the poorhouse. Guess I better git back t' my bilin'now. Good-night,' he added, rising and buttoning his old coat as hewalked away.'Sing'lar man!' Uncle Eli exclaimed, thoughtfully, 'but anyone thetpicks him up fer a fool'll find him a counterfeit.'Young as I was, the rugged, elemental power of the old poet had somehowgot to my heart and stirred my imagination. It all came not fully to myunderstanding until later. Little by little it grew upon me, and what aneffect it had upon my thought and life ever after I should not dare toestimate. And soon I sought out the 'poet of the hills,' as they calledhim, and got to know and even to respect him in spite of his unlovelyaspect.Uncle Eb skimmed the boiling sap, put more wood on the fire and came andpulled off his boots and lay down beside me under the robe. And, hearingthe boil of the sap and the crackle of the burning logs in the arch, Isoon went asleep.I remember feeling Uncle Eb's hand upon my cheek, and how I rose andstared about me in the fading shadows of a dream as he shook me gently.'Wake up, my boy,' said he. 'Come, we mus' put fer home.'The fire was out. The old man held a lantern as he stood before me, theblaze flickering. There was a fearsome darkness all around.'Come, Willy, make haste,' he whispered, as I rubbed my eyes. 'Put onyer boots, an' here's yer little coat 'n' muffler.'There was a mighty roar in the forest and icy puffs of snow camewhistling in upon us. We stored the robes and pails and buckets andcovered the big kettle.The lofty tree-tops reeled and creaked above us, and a deep, sonorousmoan was sweeping through the woods, as if the fingers of the wind hadtouched a mighty harp string in the timber. We could hear the crash andthunder of falling trees.'Make haste! Make haste! It's resky here,' said Uncle Eb, and he held myhand and ran. We started through the brush and steered as straight aswe could for the clearing. The little box of light he carried was soonsheathed in snow, and I remember how he stopped, half out of breath,often, and brushed it with his mittens to let out the light. We had madethe scattering growth of little timber at the edge of the woods when theglobe of the lantern snapped and fell. A moment later we stood in utterdarkness. I knew, for the first time, then that we were in a bad fix.'I guess God'll take care of us, Willy,' said Uncle Eb. 'If he don't,we'll never get there in this world never!'It was a black and icy wall of night and storm on every side of us.I never saw a time when the light of God's heaven was so utterlyextinguished; the cold never went to my bone as on that bitter night.My hands and feet were numb with aching, as the roar of the trees grewfainter in the open. I remember how I lagged, and how the old man urgedme on, and how we toiled in the wind and darkness, straining our eyesfor some familiar thing. Of a sudden we stumbled upon a wall that we hadpassed an hour or so before.'Oh!' he groaned, and made that funny, deprecating cluck with histongue, that I have heard so much from Yankee lips.'God o' mercy!' said he, 'we've gone 'round in a half-circle. Now we'lltake the wall an' mebbe it'll bring us home.'I thought I couldn't keep my feet any longer, for an irresistibledrowsiness had come over me. The voice of Uncle Eb seemed far away,and when I sank in the snow and shut my eyes to sleep he shook me as aterrier shakes a rat.'Wake up, my boy,' said he, 'ye musn't sleep.'Then he boxed my ears until I cried, and picked me up and ran with mealong the side of the wall. I was but dimly conscious when he droppedme under a tree whose bare twigs lashed the air and stung my cheeks. Iheard him tearing the branches savagely and muttering, 'Thanks to God,it's the blue beech.' I shall never forget how he turned and held to myhand and put the whip on me as I lay in the snow, and how the sting ofit started my blood. Up I sprang in a jiffy and howled and danced. Thestout rod bent and circled on me like a hoop of fire. Then I turned andtried to run while he clung to my coat tails, and every step I felt thestinging grab of the beech. There is a little seam across my cheek todaythat marks a footfall of one of those whips. In a moment I was as wideawake as Uncle Eb and needed no more stimulation.The wall led us to the pasture lane, and there it was easy enough tomake our way to the barnyard and up to the door of the house, which hada candle in every window, I remember. David was up and dressed to comeafter us, and I recall how he took Uncle Eb in his arms, when he fellfainting on the doorstep, and carried him to the lounge. I saw the bloodon my face as I passed the mirror, and Elizabeth Brower came running andgave me one glance and rushed out of doors with the dipper. It was fullof snow when she ran in and tore the wrappings off my neck and began torub my ears and cheeks with the cold snow, calling loudly for GrandmaBisnette. She came in a moment and helped at the stripping of our feetand legs. I remember that she slit my trousers with the shears as I layon the floor, while the others rubbed my feet with the snow. Our handsand ears were badly frosted, but in an hour the whiteness had gone outof them and the returning blood burnt like a fire.'How queer he stares!' I heard them say when Uncle Eb first came to, andin a moment a roar of laughter broke from him.'I'll never fergit,' said he presently, 'if I live a thousan' years, thelickin' I gin thet boy; but it hurt me worse'n it hurt him.'Then he told the story of the blue beech.The next day was that 'cold Friday' long remembered by those who feltits deadly chill--a day when water thrown in the magic air came down inclinking crystals, and sheaths of frost lay thick upon the windows. Butthat and the one before it were among the few days in that early periodthat lie, like a rock, under my character.Chapter 9Grandma Bisnette came from Canada to work for the Browers. She wasa big, cheerful woman, with a dialect, an amiable disposition and aswarthy, wrinkled face. She had a loose front tooth that occupied allthe leisure of her tongue. When she sat at her knitting this big toothclicked incessantly. On every stitch her tongue went in and out acrossit' and I, standing often by her knees, regarded the process with greatcuriosity.The reader may gather much from these frank and informing words ofGrandma Bisnette. 'When I los' my man, Mon Dieu! I have two son. An'when I come across I bring him with me. Abe he rough; but den he no badman.'Abe was the butcher of the neighbourhood--that red-handed,stony-hearted, necessary man whom the Yankee farmer in that northcountry hires to do the cruel things that have to be done. He woreragged, dirty clothes and had a voice like a steam whistle. His rough,black hair fell low and mingled with his scanty beard. His hands werestained too often with the blood of some creature we loved. I alwayscrept under the bed in Mrs Brower's room when Abe came--he was such aterror to me with his bloody work and noisy oaths. Such men were thecurse of the cleanly homes in that country. There was much to shockthe ears and eyes of children in the life of the farm. It was a fashionamong the help to decorate their speech with profanity for the meresound of it' and the foul mouthings of low-minded men spread like apestilence in the fields.Abe came always with an old bay horse and a rickety buckboard. His onefoot on the dash, as he rode, gave the picture a dare-devil finish.The lash of his bull-whip sang around him, and his great voice sent itsblasts of noise ahead. When we heard a fearful yell and rumble in thedistance, we knew Abe was coming.'Abe he come,' said Grandma Bisnette. 'Mon Dieu! he make de leetle rockfly.'It was like the coming of a locomotive with roar of wheel and whistle.In my childhood, as soon as I saw the cloud of dust, I put for the bedand from its friendly cover would peek out' often, but never venture faruntil the man of blood had gone.To us children he was a marvel of wickedness. There were those who toldhow he had stood in the storm one night and dared the Almighty to sendthe lightning upon him.The dog Fred had grown so old and infirm that one day they sent for Abeto come and put an end to his misery. Every man on the farm loved theold dog and not one of them would raise a hand to kill him. Hope andI heard what Abe was coming to do, and when the men had gone to thefields, that summer morning, we lifted Fred into the little wagon inwhich he had once drawn me and starting back of the barn stole awaywith him through the deep grass of the meadow until we came out upon thehighroad far below. We had planned to take him to school and make him anest in the woodshed where he could share our luncheon and be out of theway of peril. After a good deal of difficulty and heavy pulling wegot to the road at last. The old dog, now blind and helpless, satcontentedly in the wagon while its wheels creaked and groaned beneathhim. We had gone but a short way in the road when we heard the redbridge roar under rushing wheels and the familiar yell of Abe.'We'd better run,' said Hope, ''er we'll git swore at.'I looked about me in a panic for some place to hide the party, but Abewas coming fast and there was only time to pick up clubs and stand ourground.'Here!' the man shouted as he pulled up along side of us, 'where yegoin' with that dog?''Go 'way,' I answered, between anger and tears, lifting my club in athreatening manner.He laughed then--a loud guffaw that rang in the near woods.'What'll ye give me,' he asked leaning forward, his elbows on his knees,'What'll ye give me if I don't kill him?'I thought a moment. Then I put my hand in my pocket and presently tookout my jack-knife--that treasure Uncle Eb had bought for me--and lookedat it fondly.Then I offered it to him.Again he laughed loudly.'Anything else?' he demanded while Hope sat hugging the old dog that waslicking her hands.'Got forty cents that I saved for the fair,' said I promptly.Abe backed his horse and turned in the road.'Wall boy,' he said, 'Tell 'em I've gone home.'Then his great voice shouted, 'g'lang' the lash of his whip sang in theair and off he went.We were first to arrive at the schoolhouse, that morning, and whenthe other children came we had Fred on a comfortable bed of grass in acorner of the woodshed. What with all the worry of that day I said mylessons poorly and went home with a load on my heart. Tomorrow would beSaturday; how were we to get food and water to the dog? They asked athome if we had seen old Fred and we both declared we had not--the firstlie that ever laid its burden on my conscience. We both saved all ourbread and butter and doughnuts next day, but we had so many chores todo it was impossible to go to the schoolhouse with them. So we agreedto steal away that night when all were asleep and take the food from itshiding place.In the excitement of the day neither of us had eaten much. They thoughtwe were ill and sent us to bed early. When Hope came into my room abovestairs late in the evening we were both desperately hungry. We looked atour store of doughnuts and bread and butter under my bed. We counted itover.'Won't you try one o' the doughnuts,' I whispered hoping that she wouldsay yes so that I could try one also; for they did smell mighty good.''Twouldn't be right,' said she regretfully. 'There ain't any more 'nhe'll want now.''Twouldn't be right,' I repeated with a sigh as I looked longingly atone of the big doughnuts. 'Couldn't bear t' do it--could you?''Don't seem as if I could,' she whispered, thoughtfully, her chin uponher hand.Then she rose and went to the window.'O my! how dark it is!' she whispered, looking out into the night.'Purty dark!' I said, 'but you needn't be 'fraid. I'll take care o' you.If we should meet a bear I'll growl right back at him--that's what UncleEb tol' me t' do. I'm awful stout--most a man now! Can't nuthin' scareme.'We could hear them talking below stairs and we went back to bed,intending to go forth later when the house was still. But' unfortunatelyfor our adventure I fell asleep.It was morning when I opened my eyes again. We children lookedaccusingly at each other while eating breakfast. Then we had to bewashed and dressed in our best clothes to go to meeting. When the wagonwas at the door and we were ready to start I had doughnuts and breadand butter in every pocket of my coat and trousers. I got in quickly andpulled the blanket over me so as to conceal the fullness of my pockets.We arrived so late I had no chance to go to the dog before we went intomeeting. I was wearing boots that were too small for me, and when Ientered with the others and sat down upon one of those straight backedseats of plain, unpainted pine my feet felt as if I had been caught ina bear trap. There was always such a silence in the room after the elderhad sat down and adjusted his spectacles that I could hear the tickingof the watch he carried in the pocket of his broadcloth waistcoat. Formy own part I know I looked with too much longing for the good of mysoul on the great gold chain that spanned the broad convexity of hisstomach. Presently I observed that a couple of young women were lookingat me and whispering. Then suddenly I became aware that there weresundry protuberances on my person caused by bread and butter anddoughnuts, and I felt very miserable indeed. Now and then as the elderspoke the loud, accusing neigh of some horse, tethered to the fence inthe schoolyard, mingled with his thunder. After the good elder had beenpreaching an hour his big, fat body seemed to swim in my tears. When hehad finished the choir sang. Their singing was a thing that appealed tothe eye as well as the ear. Uncle Eb used to say it was a great comfortto see Elkenah Samson sing bass. His great mouth opened widely in thisform of praise and his eyes had a wild stare in them when he aimed atthe low notes.Ransom Walker, a man of great dignity, with a bristling moustache, whohad once been a schoolmaster, led the choir and carried the tenor part.It was no small privilege after the elder had announced the hymn, to seehim rise and tap the desk with his tuning fork and hold it to his earsolemnly. Then he would seem to press his chin full hard upon his throatwhile he warbled a scale. Immediately, soprano, alto, bass and tenorlaunched forth upon the sea of song. The parts were like the treacherousand conflicting currents of a tide that tossed them roughly andsometimes overturned their craft. And Ransom Walker showed always aproper sense of danger and responsibility. Generally they got to portsafely on these brief excursions, though exhausted. He had a way ofbeating time with his head while singing and I have no doubt it was agreat help to him.The elder came over to me after meeting, having taken my tears for asign of conviction.'May the Lord bless and comfort you, my boy!' said he.I got away shortly and made for the door. Uncle Eb stopped me.'My stars, Willie!' said he putting his hand on my upper coat pocket''what ye got in there?''Doughnuts,' I answered.'An' what's this?' he asked touching one of my side pockets.'Doughnuts,' I repeated.'An' this,' touching another.'That's doughnuts too,' I said.'An' this,' he continued going down to my trousers pocket.'Bread an' butter,' I answered, shamefacedly, and on the verge of tears.'Jerusalem!' he exclaimed, 'must a 'spected a purty long sermon.'Brought 'em fer ol' Fred,' I replied.'Ol' Fred!' he whispered, 'where's he?'I told my secret then and we both went out with Hope to where we hadleft him. He lay with his head between his paws on the bed of grass justas I had seen him lie many a time when his legs were weary with travelon Paradise Road, and when his days were yet full of pleasure. We calledto him and Uncle Eb knelt and touched his head. Then he lifted the dog'snose, looked a moment into the sightless eyes and let it fall again.'Fred's gone,' said he in a low tone as he turned away. 'Got there aheaduv us, Willy.'Hope and I sat down by the old dog and wept bitterly.Chapter 10Uncle Eb was a born lover of fun. But he had a solemn way of fishingthat was no credit to a cheerful man. It was the same when he playedthe bass viol, but that was also a kind of fishing at which he tried hisluck in a roaring torrent of sound. Both forms of dissipation gave hima serious look and manner, that came near severity. They brought onhis face only the light of hope and anticipation or the shadow ofdisappointment.We had finished our stent early the day of which I am writing. When wehad dug our worms and were on our way to the brook with pole and line asquint of elation had hold of Uncle Eb's face. Long wrinkles deepened ashe looked into the sky for a sign of the weather, and then relaxed abit as he turned his eyes upon the smooth sward. It was no time for idletalk. We tiptoed over the leafy carpet of the woods. Soon as I spoke helifted his hand with a warning 'Sh--h!' The murmur of the stream was inour ears. Kneeling on a mossy knoll we baited the hooks; then Uncle Ebbeckoned to me.I came to him on tiptoe.'See thet there foam 'long side o' the big log?' he whispered, pointingwith his finger.I nodded.'Cre-e-ep up jest as ca-a-areful as ye can,' he went on whispering.'Drop in a leetle above an' let 'er float down.'Then he went on, below me, lifting his feet in slow and stealthystrides.He halted by a bit of driftwood and cautiously threw in, his armextended, his figure alert. The squint on his face took a firmer grip.Suddenly his pole gave a leap, the water splashed, his line sang inthe air and a fish went up like a rocket. As we were looking into thetreetops it thumped the shore beside him, quivered a moment and floppeddown the bank He scrambled after it and went to his knees in the brookcoming up empty-handed. The water was slopping out of his boot legs.'Whew!' said he, panting with excitement, as I came over to him.'Reg'lar ol' he one,' he added, looking down at his boots. 'Got awayfrom me--consarn him! Hed a leetle too much power in the arm.'He emptied his boots, baited up and went back to his fishing. As Ilooked up at him he stood leaning over the stream jiggling his hook. Ina moment I saw a tug at the line. The end of his pole went under waterlike a flash. It bent double as Uncle Eb gave it a lift. The fish beganto dive and rush. The line cut the water in a broad semicircle and thenwent far and near with long, quick slashes. The pole nodded and writhedlike a thing of life. Then Uncle Eb had a look on him that is one ofthe treasures of my memory. In a moment the fish went away with such aviolent rush, to save him, he had to throw his pole into the water.'Heavens an' airth!' he shouted, 'the ol' settler!'The pole turned quickly and went lengthwise into the rapids. He ran downthe bank and I after him. The pole was speeding through the swift water.We scrambled over logs and through bushes, but the pole went faster thanwe. Presently it stopped and swung around. Uncle Eb went splashing intothe brook. Almost within reach of the pole he dashed his foot upon astone, falling headlong in the current. I was close upon his heels andgave him a hand. He rose hatless, dripping from head to foot and pressedon. He lifted his pole. The line clung to a snag and then gave way;the tackle was missing. He looked at it silently, tilting his head. Wewalked slowly to the shore. Neither spoke for a moment.'Must have been a big fish,' I remarked.'Powerful!' said he, chewing vigorously on his quid of tobacco as heshook his head and looked down at his wet clothing. 'In a desp'rit fix,ain't I?''Too bad!' I exclaimed.'Seldom ever hed sech a disapp'intment,' he said. 'Ruther counted onketchin' thet fish--he was s' well hooked.'He looked longingly at the water a moment 'If I don't go hum,' said he,'an' keep my mouth shet I'll say sumthin' I'll be sorry fer.'He was never quite the same after that. He told often of his strugglewith this unseen, mysterious fish and I imagined he was a bit more givento reflection. He had had hold of the 'ol' settler of Deep Hole'--afish of great influence and renown there in Faraway. Most of the localfishermen had felt him tug at the line one time or another. No man hadever seen him for the water was black in Deep Hole. No fish had everexerted a greater influence on the thought, the imagination, the mannersor the moral character of his contemporaries. Tip Taylor always tookoff his hat and sighed when he spoke of the 'ol' settler'. Ransom Walkersaid he had once seen his top fin and thought it longer than a razor.Ransom took to idleness and chewing tobacco immediately after hisencounter with the big fish, and both vices stuck to him as long as helived. Everyone had his theory of the 'ol' settler'. Most agreed he wasa very heavy trout. Tip Taylor used to say that in his opinion ''twasnuthin' more'n a plain, overgrown, common sucker,' but Tip came from theSucker Brook country where suckers lived in colder water and were moreentitled to respect.Mose Tupper had never had his hook in the 'ol' settler' and wouldbelieve none of the many stories of adventure at Deep Hole that hadthrilled the township.'Thet fish hes made s' many liars 'round here ye dimno who t' b'lieve,'he had said at the corners one day, after Uncle Eb had told his story ofthe big fish. 'Somebody 't knows how t' fish hed oughter go 'n ketch himfer the good o' the town--thet's what I think.'Now Mr Tupper was an excellent man but his incredulity was always toobluntly put. It had even led to some ill feeling.He came in at our place one evening with a big hook and line from 'downeast'--the kind of tackle used in salt water.'What ye goin' t' dew with it?' Uncle Eb enquired.'Ketch thet fish ye talk s' much about--goin' t' put him out o' theway.'''Tain't fair,' said Uncle Eb, 'its reedic'lous. Like leading a pup witha log chain.''Don't care,' said Mose, 'I'm goin' t' go fishin t'morrer. If therereely is any sech fish--which I don't believe there is--I'm goin't' rassle with him an' mebbe tek him out o' the river. Thet fish issp'llin' the moral character o' this town. He oughter be rode on arail--thet fish hed.'How he would punish a trout in that manner Mr Tupper failed to explain,but his metaphor was always a worse fit than his trousers and that wasbad enough.It was just before haying and, there being little to do, we had alsoplanned to try our luck in the morning. When, at sunrise, we werewalking down the cow-path to the woods I saw Uncle Eb had a coil of bedcord on his shoulder.'What's that for?' I asked.'Wall,' said he, 'goin' t' hev fun anyway. If we can't ketch one thingwe'll try another.'We had great luck that morning and when our basket was near full we cameto Deep Hole and made ready for a swim in the water above it. Uncle Ebhad looped an end of the bed cord and tied a few pebbles on it with bitsof string.'Now,' said he presently, 'I want t' sink this loop t' the bottom an'pass the end o' the cord under the driftwood so 't we can fetch it'crost under water.'There was a big stump, just opposite, with roots running down the bankinto the stream. I shoved the line under the drift with a pole and thenhauled it across where Uncle Eb drew it up the bank under the stumproots.'In 'bout half an hour I cal'late Mose Tupper'll be 'long,' hewhispered. 'Wisht ye'd put on yer clo's an' lay here back o' the stumpan' hold on t' the cord. When ye feel a bite give a yank er two an' haulin like Sam Hill--fifteen feet er more quicker'n scat. Snatch his poleright away from him. Then lay still.'Uncle Eb left me, shortly, going up stream. It was near an hour before Iheard them coming. Uncle Eb was talking in a low tone as they came downthe other bank.'Drop right in there,' he was saying, 'an' let her drag down, throughthe deep water, deliberate like. Git clus t' the bottom.'Peering through a screen of bushes I could see an eager look on theunlovely face of Moses. He stood leaning toward the water and jigglinghis hook along the bottom. Suddenly I saw Mose jerk and felt the cordmove. I gave it a double twitch and began to pull. He held hard for ajiffy and then stumbled and let go yelling like mad. The pole hit thewater with a splash and went out of sight like a diving frog. I broughtit well under the foam and driftwood. Deep Hole resumed its calm,unruffled aspect. Mose went running toward Uncle Eb.''S a whale!' he shouted. 'Ripped the pole away quicker'n lightnin'.''Where is it?' Uncle Eb asked.'Tuk it away f'm me,' said Moses. 'Grabbed it jes' like thet,' he addedwith a violent jerk of his hand.'What d' he dew with it?' Uncle Eb enquired.Mose looked thoughtfully at the water and scratched his head, hisfeatures all a tremble.'Dunno,' said he. 'Swallered it mebbe.''Mean t' say ye lost hook, line, sinker 'n pole?''Hook, line, sinker 'n pole,' he answered mournfully. 'Come nigh haulin'me in tew.'''Tain't possible,' said Uncle Eb.Mose expectorated, his hands upon his hips, looking down at the water.'Wouldn't eggzac'ly say 'twas possible,' he drawled, 'but 'twas a fact.''Yer mistaken,' said Uncle Eb.'No I hain't,' was the answer, 'I tell ye I see it.''Then if ye see it the nex' thing ye orter see 's a doctor. There'ssumthin' wrong with you sumwheres.''Only one thing the matter o' me,' said Mose with a little twinge ofremorse. 'I'm jest a natural born perfec' dum fool. Never c'u'd b'lievethere was any sech fish.''Nobody ever said there was any sech fish,' said Uncle Eb. 'He's donemore t' you 'n he ever done t' me. Never served me no sech trick asthet. If I was you I'd never ask nobody t' b'lieve it 'S a leetle tewmuch.'Mose went slowly and picked up his hat. Then he returned to the bank andlooked regretfully at the water.'Never see the beat o' thet,' he went on. 'Never see sech power 'n afish. Knocks the spots off any fish I ever hearn of.''Ye riled him with that big tackle o' yourn,' said Uncle Eb. 'Hewouldn't stan' it.''Feel jest as if I'd hed holt uv a wil' cat,' said Mose. 'Tuk the hullthing--pole an' all--quicker 'n lightnin'. Nice a bit o' hickory as aman ever see. Gol' durned if I ever heem o' the like o' that, ever.'He sat down a moment on the bank.'Got t' rest a minute,' he remarked. 'Feel kind o' wopsy after thetsquabble.'They soon went away. And when Mose told the story of 'the swalleredpole' he got the same sort of reputation he had given to others. Only itwas real and large and lasting.'Wha' d' ye think uv it?' he asked, when he had finished.'Wall,' said Ransom Walker, 'wouldn't want t' say right out plain t' yerface.'''Twouldn't he p'lite,' said Uncle Eb soberly.'Sound a leetle ha'sh,' Tip Taylor added.'Thet fish has jerked the fear o' God out o' ye--thet's the way it lookst' me,' said Carlyle Barber.'Yer up 'n the air, Mose,' said another. 'Need a sinker on ye.' Theybullied him--they talked him down, demurring mildly, but firmly.'Tell ye what I'll do,' said Mose sheepishly, 'I'll b'lieve you fellersif you'll b'lieve me.''What, swop even? Not much!' said one, with emphasis. ''Twouldn't befair. Ye've ast us t' b'lieve a genuwine out 'n out impossibility.'Mose lifted his hat and scratched his head thoughtfully. There was alook of embarrassment in his face.'Might a ben dreamin',' said he slowly. 'I swear it's gittin' so here 'nthis town a feller can't hardly b'lieve himself.''Fur 's my experience goes,' said Ransom Walker, 'he'd be a fool 'f hedid.'''Minds me o' the time I went fishin' with Ab Thomas,' said Uncle Eb.'He ketched an ol' socker the fast thing. I went off by myself 'n got agood sized fish, but 'twant s' big 's hisn. So I tuk 'n opened his mouthn poured in a lot o' fine shot. When I come back Ab he looked at my fish'n begun t' brag. When we weighed 'em mine was a leetle heavier.'"What!" says he. "'Tain't possible thet leetle cuss uv a trout 'sheavier 'n mine."''Tis sarrin,' I said.'"Dummed deceivin' business," said he as he hefted 'em both. "Gittin' soye can't hardly b'lieve the stillyards."'Chapter 11The fifth summer was passing since we came down Paradise Road--the dog,Uncle Eb and I. Times innumerable I had heard my good old friend tellthe story of our coming west until its every incident was familiar tome as the alphabet. Else I fear my youthful memory would have served mepoorly for a chronicle of my childhood so exact and so extended as thisI have written. Uncle Eb's hair was white now and the voices of theswift and the panther had grown mild and tremulous and unsatisfactoryand even absurd. Time had tamed the monsters of that imaginarywilderness and I had begun to lose my respect for them. But one fear hadremained with me as I grew older--the fear of the night man. Every boyand girl in the valley trembled at the mention of him. Many a time I hadheld awake in the late evening to hear the men talk of him before theywent asleep--Uncle Eb and Tip Taylor. I remember a night when Tip said,in a low awesome tone, that he was a ghost. The word carried into mysoul the first thought of its great and fearful mystery.'Years and years ago,' said he, 'there was a boy by the name of NehemiahBrower. An' he killed another boy, once, by accident an' run away an'was drownded.''Drownded!' said Uncle Eb. 'How?''In the ocean,' the first answered gaping. 'Went away off 'round theworld an' they got a letter that said he was drownded on his way to VanDieman's Land.''To Van Dieman's Land!''Yes, an some say the night man is the ghost o' the one he killed.'I remember waking that night and hearing excited whispers at the windownear my bed. It was very dark in the room and at first I could not tellwho was there.'Don't you see him?' Tip whispered.'Where?' I heard Uncle Be ask'Under the pine trees--see him move.'At that I was up at the window myself and could plainly see the darkfigure of a man standing under the little pine below us.'The night man, I guess,' said Uncle Be, 'but he won't do no harm. Lethim alone; he's going' away now.'We saw him disappear behind the trees and then we got back into our bedsagain. I covered my head with the bedclothes and said a small prayer forthe poor night man.And in this atmosphere of mystery and adventure, among the plain folk ofFaraway, whose care of me when I was in great need, and whose love ofme always, I count among the priceless treasures of God's providence, mychildhood passed. And the day came near when I was to begin to play mypoor part in the world.BOOK TWOChapter 12It was a time of new things--that winter when I saw the end of myfifteenth year. Then I began to enjoy the finer humours of life inFaraway--to see with understanding; and by God's grace--to feel.The land of play and fear and fable was now far behind me and I hadbegun to feel the infinite in the ancient forest' in the everlastinghills, in the deep of heaven, in all the ways of men. Hope Brower wasnow near woman grown. She had a beauty of face and form that was thetalk of the countryside. I have travelled far and seen many a fair facehut never one more to my eye. I have heard men say she was like a girlout of a story-book those days.Late years something had come between us. Long ago we had fallen out ofeach other's confidence, and ever since she had seemed to shun me. Itwas the trip in the sledgehouse that' years after, came up between usand broke our childish intimacy. Uncle Be had told, before company, howshe had kissed me that day and bespoke me for a husband, and while theothers laughed loudly she had gone out of the room crying. She wouldhave little to say to me then. I began to play with boys and she withgirls. And it made me miserable to hear the boys a bit older than Igossip of her beauty and accuse each other of the sweet disgrace oflove.But I must hasten to those events in Faraway that shaped our destinies.And first comes that memorable night when I had the privilegeof escorting Hope to the school lyceum where the argument of JedFeary--poet of the hills--fired my soul with an ambition that hasremained with me always.Uncle Be suggested that I ask Hope to go with me.'Prance right up to her,' he said, 'an' say you'd be glad of thepleasure of her company.It seemed to me a very dubious thing to do. I looked thoughtful andturned red in the face.'Young man,' he continued, 'the boy thet's 'fraid o' women'll never hevwhiskers.''How's that?' I enquired.'Be scairt t' death,' he answered,' 'fore they've hed time t' startYe want t' step right up t' the rack jes' if ye'd bought an' paid feryerself an' was proud o' yer bargain.'I took his advice and when I found Hope alone in the parlour I came andasked her, very awkwardly as I now remember, to go with me.She looked at me, blushing, and said she would ask her mother.And she did, and we walked to the schoolhouse together that evening, herhand holding my arm, timidly, the most serious pair that ever struggledwith the problem of deportment on such an occasion. I was oppressed witha heavy sense of responsibility in every word I uttered.Ann Jane Foster, known as 'Scooter Jane', for her rapid walk and stiffcarriage, met us at the corners on her way to the schoolhouse.'Big turn out I guess,' said she. 'Jed Feary 'n' Squire Town is comin'over from Jingleville an' all the big guns'll be there. I love t' hearJed Feary speak, he's so techin'.'Ann Jane was always looking around for some event likely to touch herfeelings. She went to every funeral in Faraway and, when sorrow wasscarce in her own vicinity, journeyed far in quest of it.'Wouldn't wonder 'f the fur flew when they git t' going',' she remarked,and then hurried on, her head erect, her body motionless, her legsflying. Such energy as she gave to the pursuit of mourning I have neverseen equalled in any other form of dissipation.The schoolhouse was nearly full of people when we came in. The big boyswere wrestling in the yard; men were lounging on the rude seats, inside,idly discussing crops and cattle and lapsing into silence, frequently,that bore the signs both of expectancy and reflection. Young menand young women sat together on one side of the house whispering andgiggling. Alone among them was the big and eccentric granddaughter ofMrs Bisnette, who was always slapping some youngster for impertinence.Jed Feary and Squire Town sat together behind a pile of books, bothlooking very serious. The long hair and beard of the old poet were nowwhite and his form bent with age. He came over and spoke to us andtook a curl of Hope's hair in his stiffened fingers and held it to thelamplight.'What silky gold!' he whispered.' 'S a skein o' fate, my dear girl!'Suddenly the schoolteacher rapped on the desk and bade us come to orderand Ransom Walker was called to the chair.'Thet there is talent in Faraway township,' he said, having reluctantlycome to the platform, 'and talent of the very highest order, no one candeny who has ever attended a lyceum at the Howard schoolhouse. I seeevidences of talent in every face before me. And I wish to ask what arethe two great talents of the Yankee--talents that made our forefathersfamous the world over? I pause for an answer.'He had once been a schoolmaster and that accounted for his didacticstyle.'What are the two great talents of the Yankee?' he repeated, his handsclasped before him.'Doughnuts an' pie,' said Uncle Be who sat in a far corner.'No sir,' Mr Walker answered, 'there's some hev a talent fer sawin'wood, but we don't count that. It's war an' speakin', they are the twogreat talents of the Yankee. But his greatest talent is the gift o'gab. Give him a chance t' talk it over with his enemy an' he'll lick 'imwithout a fight. An' when his enemy is another Yankee--why, they bothgit licked, jest as it was in the case of the man thet sold me lightnin'rods. He was sorry he done it before I got through with him. If we didnot encourage this talent in our sons they would be talked to death byour daughters. Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me pleasure t' say thatthe best speakers in Faraway township have come here t' discuss theimportant question:'Resolved, that intemperance has caused more misery than war?'I call upon Moses Tupper to open for the affirmative.'Moses, as I have remarked, had a most unlovely face with a thin andbristling growth of whiskers. In giving him features Nature had beengenerous to a fault. He had a large red nose, and a mouth vastly toobig for any proper use. It was a mouth fashioned for odd sayings. He waswell to do and boasted often that he was a self-made man. Uncle Be usedto say that if Mose Tupper had had the 'makin' uv himself he'd oughterdone it more careful.'I remember not much of the speech he made, but the picture of him, ashe rose on tiptoe and swung his arms like a man fighting bees, and hisdrawling tones are as familiar as the things of yesterday.'Gentlemen an' ladies,' said he presently, 'let me show you a pictur'.It is the drunkard's child. It is hungry an' there ain't no food in itshome. The child is poorer'n a straw-fed hoss. 'Tain't hed a thing t' eatsince day before yistiddy. Pictur' it to yourselves as it comes cryin'to its mother an' says:'"Ma! Gi' me a piece o' bread an' butter."'She covers her face with her apron an' says she, "There am none left,my child."'An' bime bye the child comes agin' an' holds up its poor little han'san' says: "Ma! please gi' me a piece O' cake."'An' she goes an' looks out O' the winder, er mebbe pokes the fire, an'says: "There am' none left, my child."'An' bime bye it comes agin' an' it says: "Please gi' me a little pieceO' pie."'An' she mebbe flops into a chair an' says, sobbin', "There ain' noneleft, my child."'No pie! Now, Mr Chairman!' exclaimed the orator, as he lifted bothhands high above his head, 'If this ain't misery, in God's name, what isit?'Years ago, when I was a young man, Mr President, I went to a dance onenight at the village of Migleyville. I got a toothache, an' the Deviltempted me with whiskey, an' I tuk one glass an' then another an' purtysoon I began t' thank I was a mighty hefty sort of a character, I did,an' I stud on a corner an' stumped everybody t' fight with me, an'bime bye an accomanodatin' kind of a chap come along, an' that's all Iremember O' what happened. When I come to, my coat tails had been toreoff, I'd lost one leg O' my trousers, a bran new silver watch, tewdollars in money, an a pair O' spectacles. When I stud up an' tried t'realise what hed happened I felt jes' like a blind rooster with only oneleg an' no tail feathers.'A roar of laughter followed these frank remarks of Mr Tupper and brokeinto a storm of merriment when Uncle Eb rose and said:'Mr President, I hope you see that the misfortunes of our friend was duet' war, an' not to intemperance.'Mr Tupper was unhorsed. For some minutes he stood helpless or shakingwith the emotion that possessed all. Then he finished lamely and satdown.The narrowness of the man that saw so much where there was so littlein his own experience and in the trivial events of his own township waswhat I now recognise as most valuable to the purpose of this history.It was a narrowness that covered a multitude of people in St Lawrencecounty in those days.Jed Feary was greeted with applause and then by respectful silence whenhe rose to speak. The fame of his verse and his learning had gone farbeyond the narrow boundaries of the township in which he lived. It wasthe biggest thing in the county. Many a poor sinner who had gone out ofFaraway to his long home got his first praise in the obituary poem byJed Feary. These tributes were generally published in the county paperand paid for by the relatives of the deceased at the rate of a dollara day for the time spent on them, or by a few days of board and lodgingglory and consolation that was, alas! too cheap, as one might see by aglance at his forlorn figure. I shall never forget the courtly manner,so strangely in contrast with the rude deportment of other men in thatplace, with which he addressed the chairman and the people. The drawlingdialect of the vicinity that flavoured his conversation fell from himlike a mantle as he spoke and the light in his soul shone upon thatlittle company a great light, as I now remember, that filled me withburning thoughts of the world and its mighty theatre of action. The wayof my life lay clear before me, as I listened, and its days of toil andthe sweet success my God has given me, although I take it humbly andhold it infinitely above my merit. I was to get learning and seek someway of expressing what was in me.It would ill become me to try to repeat the words of this venerableseer, but he showed that intemperance was an individual sin, while warwas a national evil. That one meant often the ruin of a race; the otherthe ruin of a family; that one was as the ocean, the other as a singledrop in its waters. And he told us of the fall of empires and themillions that had suffered the oppression of the conqueror and perishedby the sword since Agamemnon.After the debate a young lady read a literary paper full of clumsywit, rude chronicles of the countryside, essays on 'Spring', and liketopics--the work of the best talent of Faraway. Then came the decision,after which the meeting adjourned.At the door some other boys tried 'to cut me out'. I came through thenoisy crowd, however, with Hope on my arm and my heart full of a greathappiness.'Did you like it?' she asked.'Very much,' I answered.'What did you enjoy most?''Your company,' I said, with a fine air of gallantry.'Honestly?''Honestly. I want to take you to Rickard's sometime?'That was indeed a long cherished hope.'Maybe I won't let you,' she said.'Wouldn't you?''You'd better ask me sometime and see.''I shall. I wouldn't ask any other girl.''Well,' she added, with a sigh, 'if a boy likes one girl I don't thinkhe ought to have anything to do with other girls. I hate a flirt.'I happened to hear a footfall in the snow behind us, and looking backsaw Ann Jane Foster going slow in easy hearing. She knew all, as we soonfound out.'I dew jes love t' see young folks enjoy themselves,' said she, 'it'sentrancin'.'Coming in at our gate I saw a man going over the wall back of the bigstables. The house was dark.'Did you see the night man?' Elizabeth Brower whispered as I lit thelamp. 'Went through the garden just now. I've been watching him here atthe window.'Chapter 13The love of labour was counted a great virtue there in Faraway. As formyself I could never put my heart in a hoe handle or in any like toolof toil. They made a blister upon my spirit as well as upon my hands. Itried to find in the sweat of my brow that exalted pleasure of which MrGreeley had visions in his comfortable retreat on Printing House Square.But unfortunately I had not his point of view.Hanging in my library, where I may see it as I write, is the old sickleof Uncle Eb. The hard hickory of its handle is worn thin by the grip ofhis hand. It becomes a melancholy symbol when I remember how also thehickory had worn him thin and bent him low, and how infinitely betterthan all the harvesting of the sickle was the strength of that man,diminishing as it wore the wood. I cannot help smiling when I lookat the sickle and thank of the soft hands and tender amplitude of MrGreeley.The great editor had been a playmate of David Brower when they wereboys, and his paper was read with much reverence in our home.'How quick ye can plough a ten-acre lot with a pen,' Uncle Eb used tosay when we had gone up to bed after father had been reading aloud fromhis Tribune.Such was the power of the press in that country one had but to say ofany doubtful thing, 'Seen it in print,' to stop all argument. If therewere any further doubt he had only to say that he had read it eitherin the Tribune or the Bible, and couldn't remember which. Then it was amere question of veracity in the speaker. Books and other reading werecarefully put away for an improbable time of leisure.'I might break my leg sometime,' said David Brower, 'then they'll comehandy.' But the Tribune was read carefully every week.I have seen David Brower stop and look at me while I have been diggingpotatoes, with a sober grin such as came to him always after he hadswapped 'hosses' and got the worst of it. Then he would show me again,with a little impatience in his manner, how to hold the handle andstraddle the row. He would watch me for a moment, turn to Uncle Eb,laugh hopelessly and say: 'Thet boy'll hev to be a minister. He can'twork.'But for Elizabeth Brower it might have gone hard with me those days.My mind was always on my books or my last talk with Jed Feary, andshe shared my confidence and fed my hopes and shielded me as much aspossible from the heavy work. Hope had a better head for mathematicsthan I, and had always helped me with my sums, but I had a better memoryand an aptitude in other things that kept me at the head of most of myclasses. Best of all at school I enjoyed the 'compositions'--I had manythoughts, such as they were, and some facility of expression, I doubtnot, for a child. Many chronicles of the countryside came off mypen--sketches of odd events and characters there in Faraway. These wereread to the assembled household. Elizabeth Brower would sit lookinggravely down at me, as I stood by her knees reading, in those days of myearly boyhood. Uncle Eb listened with his head turned curiously, as ifhis ear were cocked for coons. Sometimes he and David Brower would slaptheir knees and laugh heartily, whereat my foster mother would give thema quick glance and shake her head. For she was always fearful of the daywhen she should see in her children the birth of vanity, and sought toput it off as far as might be. Sometimes she would cover her mouth tohide a smile, and, when I had finished, look warningly at the rest, andsay it was good, for a little boy. Her praise never went further, andindeed all those people hated flattery as they did the devil and frownedupon conceit She said that when the love of flattery got hold of one hewould lie to gain it.I can see this slender, blue-eyed woman as I write. She is walking upand down beside her spinning-wheel. I can hear the dreary buz-z-z-z ofthe spindle as she feeds it with the fleecy ropes. That loud crescendoechoes in the still house of memory. I can hear her singing as she stepsforward and slows the wheel and swings the cradle with her foot:  'On the other side of Jordan,  In the sweet fields of Eden,  Where the tree of Life is blooming,  There is rest for you.She lays her hand to the spokes again and the roar of the spindle drownsher voice.All day, from the breakfast hour to supper time, I have heard the dismalsound of the spinning as she walked the floor, content to sing of restbut never taking it.Her home was almost a miracle of neatness. She could work with no peaceof mind until the house had been swept and dusted. A fly speck on thewindow was enough to cloud her day. She went to town with David now andthen--not oftener than once a quarter--and came back ill and exhausted.If she sat in a store waiting for David, while he went to mill orsmithy, her imagination gave her no rest. That dirt abhorring mind ofhers would begin to clean the windows, and when that was finished itwould sweep the floor and dust the counters. In due course it wouldlower the big chandelier and take out all the lamps and wash thechimneys with soap and water and rub them till they shone. Then,if David had not come, it would put in the rest of its time on thewoodwork. With all her cleaning I am sure the good woman kept her soulspotless. Elizabeth Brower believed in goodness and the love of God, andknew no fear. Uncle Eb used to say that wherever Elizabeth Brower wenthereafter it would have to be clean and comfortable.Elder Whitmarsh came often to dinner of a Sunday, when he and Mrs Browertalked volubly about the Scriptures, he taking a sterner view of Godthan she would allow. He was an Englishman by birth, who had settled inFaraway because there he had found relief for a serious affliction ofasthma.He came over one noon in the early summer, that followed the event ofour last chapter, to tell us of a strawberry party that evening at theWhite Church.'I've had a wonderful experience,' said he as he took a seat on thepiazza, while Mrs Brower came and sat near him. 'I've discovered a greatgenius--a wandering fiddler, and I shall try to bring him to play forus.''A fiddler! why, Elder!' said she, 'you astonish me!''Nothing but sacred music,' he said, lifting his hand. 'I heard him playall the grand things today--"Rock of Ages", "Nearer My God, to Thee","The Marseillaise" and "Home, Sweet Home". Lifted me off my feet! I'veheard the great masters in New York and London, but no greater playerthan this man.''Where is he and where did he come from?''He's at my house now,' said the good man. 'I found him this morning. Hestood under a tree by the road side, above Northrup's. As I came nearI heard the strains of "The Marseillaise". For more than an hour Isat there listening. It was wonderful, Mrs Brower, wonderful! The poorfellow is eccentric. He never spoke to me. His clothes were dusty andworn. But his music went to my heart like a voice from Heaven. When hehad finished I took him home with me, gave him food and a new coat, andleft him sleeping. I want you to come over, and be sure to bring Hope.She must sing for us.''Mr Brower will be tired out, but perhaps the young people may go,' shesaid, looking at Hope and me.My heart gave a leap as I saw in Hope's eyes a reflection of my own joy.In a moment she came and gave her mother a sounding kiss and asked herwhat she should wear.'I must look my best, mother,' she said.'My child,' said the elder, 'it's what you do and not what you wearthat's important.''They're both important, Elder,' said my foster mother. You should teachyour people the duty of comeliness. They honour their Maker when theylook their best.'The spirit of liberalism was abroad in the sons of the Puritans. InElizabeth Brower the ardent austerity of her race had been freelydiluted with humour and cheerfulness and human sympathy. It used to besaid of Deacon Hospur, a good but lazy man, that he was given both toprayer and profanity. Uncle Eb, who had once heard the deacon swear,when the latter had been bruised by a kicking cow, said that, so faras he knew, the deacon never swore except when 'twas necessary. Indeed,most of those men had, I doubt not, too little of that fear of God inthem that characterised their fathers. And yet, as shall appear, therewere in Faraway some relics of a stern faith.Hope came out in fine feather, and although I have seen many grandladles, gowned for the eyes of kings, I have never seen a lovelierfigure than when, that evening, she came tripping down to the buggy. Itwas three miles to the white Church, and riding over in the twilight Ilaid the plan of my life before her. She sat a moment in silence after Ihad finished.'I am going away, too,' she remarked, with a sigh.'Going away!' I said with some surprise, for in all my plans I hadsecretly counted on returning in grand style to take her back with me.'Going away,' said she decisively.'It isn't nice for girls to go away from home,' I said.'It isn't nice for boys, either,' said she.We had come to the church, its open doors and windows all aglow withlight. I helped her out at the steps, and hitched my horse under thelong shed. We entered together and made our way through the chatteringcrowd to the little cloakroom in one corner. Elder Whitmarsh arrived ina moment and the fiddler, a short, stout, stupid-looking man, his fiddlein a black box under his arm, followed him to the platform that had beencleared of its pulpit The stranger stood staring vacantly at thecrowd until the elder motioned him to a chair, when he obeyed withthe hesitating, blind obedience of a dog. Then the elder made abrief prayer, and after a few remarks flavoured with puns, sacredand immemorial as the pulpit itself, started a brief programme ofentertainment. A broad smile marked the beginning of his lighter mood.His manner seemed to say: 'Now, ladies and gentlemen, if you will givegood heed, you shall see I can be witty on occasion.'Then a young man came to the platform and recited, after which Hope wentforward and sang 'The Land o' the Leal' with such spirit that I can feelmy blood go faster even now as I thank of it, and of that girlish figurecrowned with a glory of fair curls that fell low upon her waist andmingled with the wild pink roses at her bosom. The fiddler sat quietlyas if he heard nothing until she began to sing, when he turned to lookat her. The elder announced, after the ballad, that he had brought withhim a wonderful musician who would favour them with some sacred music.He used the word 'sacred' because he had observed, I suppose, thatcertain of the 'hardshells' were looking askance at the fiddle. Therewas an awkward moment in which the fiddler made no move or sign ofintelligence. The elder stepped near him and whispered. Getting noresponse, he returned to the front of the platform and said: 'We shallfirst resign ourselves to social intercourse and the good things theladies have provided.'Mountains of frosted cake reared their snowy summits on a long table,and the strawberries, heaped in saucers around them, were like redfoothills. I remember that while they were serving us Hope and I wereintroduced to one Robert Livingstone--a young New Yorker, stopping atthe inn near by, on his way to the big woods. He was a handsome fellow,with such a fine air of gallantry and so prig in fashionable clothesthat he made me feel awkward and uncomfortable.'I have never heard anything more delightful than that ballad,' he saidto Hope. 'You must have your voice trained--you really must. It willmake a great name for you.'I wondered then why his words hurt me to the soul. The castle of mydreams had fallen as he spoke. A new light came into her face--I did notknow then what it meant.'Will you let me call upon you before I leave--may I?' He turned to mewhile she stood silent. 'I wish to see your father,' he added.'Certainly,' she answered, blushing, 'you may come--if you care to come.The musician had begun to thrum the strings of his violin. We turnedto look at him. He still sat in his chair, his ear bent to the echoingchamber of the violin. Soon he laid his bow to the strings and a greatchord hushed every whisper and died into a sweet, low melody, in whichhis thought seemed to be feeling its way through sombre paths of sound.The music brightened, the bow went faster, and suddenly 'The Girl I LeftBehind Me' came rushing off the strings. A look of amazement gathered onthe elder's face and deepened into horror. It went from one to anotheras if it had been a dish of ipecac. Ann Jane Foster went directly forher things, and with a most unchristian look hurried out into the night.Half a dozen others followed her, while the unholy music went on, itsmerry echoes rioting in that sacred room, hallowed with memories of thehour of conviction, of the day of mourning, of the coming of the bridein her beauty.Deacon Hospur rose and began to drawl a sort of apology, when the playerstopped suddenly and shot an oath at him. The deacon staggered under theshock of it. His whiskers seemed to lift a bit like the hair of a catunder provocation. Then he tried to speak, but only stuttered helplesslya moment as if his tongue were oscillating between silence andprofanity, and was finally pulled down by his wife, who had laid hold ofhis coat tails. If it had been any other man than Deacon Hospur it wouldhave gone badly with the musician then and there, but we boys saw hisdiscomfiture with positive gratitude. In a moment all rose, the disheswere gathered up, and many hurried away with indignant glances at thepoor elder, who was busy taking counsel with some of the brethren.I have never seen a more pathetic figure than that of poor Nick Goodallas he sat there thrumming the strings of which he was a Heaven-bornmaster. I saw him often after that night--a poor, halfwitted creature,who wandered from inn to inn there in the north country, trading musicfor hospitality. A thoroughly intelligible sentence never passed hislips, but he had a great gift of eloquence in music. Nobody knew whencehe had come or any particular of his birth or training or family. Butfor his sullen temper, that broke into wild, unmeaning profanity attimes, Nick Goodall would have made fame and fortune.He stared at the thinning crowd as if he had begun dimly to comprehendthe havoc he had wrought. Then he put on his hat, came down off theplatform, and shuffled out of the open door, his violin in one hand, itsbox in the other. There were not more than a dozen of us who followedhim into the little churchyard. The moon was rising, and the shadowsof lilac and rose bush, of slab and monument lay long across the greenmounds. Standing there between the graves of the dead he began to play.I shall never forget that solemn calling of the silver string:'Come ye disconsolate where'er ye languish.'It was a new voice, a revelation, a light where darkness had been, toHope and to me. We stood listening far into the night, forgetful ofeverything, even the swift flight of the hours.Loud, impassioned chords rose into the moonlit sky and sank to a faintwhisper of melody, when we could hear the gossip of the birds in thebelfry and under the eaves; trembling tones of supplication, wailingnotes of longing and regret swept through the silent avenues of thechurchyard, thrilling us with their eloquence. For the first time weheard the music of Handel, of Mendelssohn, of Paganini, and felt itspower, then knowing neither name nor theme. Hour by hour he played onfor the mere joy of it. When we shook hands with the elder and tiptoedto the buggy he was still playing. We drove slowly and listened a longway down the road. I could hear the strains of that ballad, then new tome, but now familiar, growing fainter in the distance:O ye'll tak' the high road an' I'll tak' the low road An' I'll be inScotland afore ye; But me an' me true love will never meet again On thebonnie, bonnie banks o' Loch Lomond.what connection it may have had with the history of poor Nick Goodall[*1] I have often wondered.     [*1] Poor Nick Coodall died in the almshouse of Jefferson     County some thirty years ago. A better account of this     incident was widely printed at that time.As the last note died into silence I turned to Hope, and she was crying.'Why are you crying?' I asked, in as miserable a moment as I have everknown.'It's the music,' she said.We both sat in silence, then, hearing only the creak of the buggy asit sped over the sandy road. Well ahead of us I saw a man who suddenlyturned aside, vaulting over the fence and running into the near woods.'The night man!' I exclaimed, pulling up a moment to observe him.Then a buggy came in sight, and presently we heard a loud 'hello' fromDavid Brower, who, worried by our long stay, had come out in quest ofus.Chapter 14Hope's love of music became a passion after that night. Young MrLivingstone, 'the city chap' we had met at the church, came over nextday. His enthusiasm for her voice gave us all great hope of it. DavidBrower said he would take her away to the big city when she wasolder. They soon decided to send her in September to the big school inHillsborough.'She's got t' be a lady,' said David Brower, as he drew her into his lapthe day we had all discussed the matter. 'She's learnt everything inthe 'rithinetic an' geography an' speller. I want her t' learn somethin'more scientific.''Now you're talkin',' said Uncle Eb. 'There's lots o' things ye can'tlearn by cipherin'. Nuthin's too good fer Hope.''I'd like t' know what you men expect of her anyway,' said ElizabethBrower.'A high stepper,' said Uncle Eb. 'We want a slick coat, a kind uv atoppy head, an a lot O' ginger. So't when we hitch 'er t' the pole bimebye we shan't be 'shamed o' her.''Eggzac'ly,' said David Brower, laughing. 'An' then she shall have thebest harness in the market.'Hope did not seem to comprehend all the rustic metaphors that had beenapplied to her. A look of puzzled amusement came over her face, and thenshe ran away into the garden, her hair streaming from under her whitesun-bonnet.'Never see sech a beauty! Beats the world,' said Uncle Eb in a whisper,whereat both David and Elizabeth shook their heads.'Lord o' mercy! Don't let her know it,' Elizabeth answered, in a lowtone. 'She's beginning to have-'Just then Hope came by us leading her pet filly that had been bornwithin the month. Immediately Mrs Brower changed the subject.'To have what?' David enquired as soon as the girl was out of hearing.'Suspicions,' said Elizabeth mournfully. 'Spends a good deal of her timeat the looking-glass. I think the other girls tell her and then thatyoung Livingstone has been turning her head.''Turning her head!' he exclaimed.'Turning her head,' she answered. 'He sat here the other day anddeliberately told her that he had never seen such a complexion and suchlovely hair.'Elizabeth Brower mocked his accent with a show of contempt that feeblyechoed my own emotions.'That's the way o' city folks, mother,' said David.'It's a bad way,' she answered. 'I do not thank he ought to come here.Hope's a child yet, and we mustn't let her get notions.''I'll tell him not t' come any more,' said David, as he and Uncle Ebrose to go to their work.''I'm 'fraid she ought not to go away to school for a year yet,' saidElizabeth, a troubled look in her face.'Pshaw, mother! Ye can't keep her under yer wing alwus,' said he. 'Well,David, you know she is very young and uncommonly--' she hesitated.'Han'some,' said he, 'we might as well own up if she is our child.''If she goes away,' continued Elizabeth, 'some of us ought t' go withher.'Then Uncle Eb and David went to their work in the fields and I to my owntask That very evening they began to talk of renting the farm and goingto town with the children.I had a stent of cording wood that day and finished it before twoo'clock Then I got my pole of mountain ash, made hook and line ready,dug some worms and went fishing. I cared not so much for the fishing asfor the solitude of the woods. I had a bit of think to do. In the thicktimber there was a place where Tinkle brook began to hurry and breakinto murmurs on a pebble bar, as if its feet were tickled. A few moresteps and it burst into a peal of laughter that lasted half the year asit tumbled over narrow shelves of rock into a foamy pool. Many a day Ihad sat fishing for hours at the little fall under a birch tree, amongthe brakes and moss. No ray of sunlight ever got to the dark water belowme--the lair of many a big fish that had yielded to the temptation ofmy bait. Here I lay in the cool shade while a singular sort of heartsickness came over me. A wild partridge was beating his gong in the nearwoods all the afternoon. The sound of the water seemed to break in thetree-tops and fall back upon me. I had lain there thinking an hour ormore when I caught the jar of approaching footsteps. Looking up I sawJed Feary coming through the bushes, pole in hand.'Fishin'?' he asked.'Only thinking,' I answered.'Couldn't be in better business,' said he as he sat down beside me.More than once he had been my father confessor and I was glad he hadcome.'In love?' he asked. 'No boy ever thinks unless he's in love.''In trouble,' said I.'Same thing,' he answered, lighting his pipe. 'Love is trouble witha bit of sugar in it--the sweetest trouble a man can have. What's thematter?''It's a great secret,' I said, 'I have never told it. I am in love.''Knew it,' he said, puffing at his pipe and smiling in a kindly way.'Now let's put in the trouble.''She does not love me,' I answered.'Glad of it,' he remarked. 'I've got a secret t, tell you.''What's that?' I enquired.'Wouldn't tell anybody else for the world, my boy,' he said, 'it'sbetween you an' me.''Between you an' me,' I repeated.'Well,' he said, you're a fool.''That's no secret,' I answered much embarrassed.'Yes it is,' he insisted, 'you're smart enough an' ye can have mostanything in this world if ye take the right road. Ye've grown t' be agreat big strapping fellow but you're only--sixteen?''That's all,' I said mournfully.'Ye're as big a fool to go falling in love as I'd be. Ye're too youngan' I'm too old. I say to you, wait. Ye've got to go t' college.''College!' I exclaimed, incredulously.'Yes! an' thet's another secret,' said he. I tol' David Brower what Ithought o' your writing thet essay on bugs in pertickier--an' I tol' 'imwhat people were sayin' o' your work in school.''What d' he say?' I asked.'Said Hope had tol' him all about it--that she was as proud o' you asshe was uv her curls, an' I believe it. "Well," says I, "y' oughter sen'that boy t' college." "Goin' to," says he. "He'll go t' the 'Cademy thisfall if he wants to. Then he can go t' college soon's he's ready." Threwup my hat an' shouted I was that glad.'As he spoke the old man's face kindled with enthusiasm. In me he had onewho understood him, who saw truth in his thought, music in his verse,a noble simplicity in his soul. I took his hand in mine and thanked himheartily. Then we rose and came away together.'Remember,' he said, as we parted at the corner, 'there's a way laidout fer you. In God's time it will lead to every good thing you desire.Don't jump over the fence. Don't try t' pass any milestun 'fore ye'vecome to it. Don't mope. Keep yer head cool with philosophy, yer feetwarm with travel an' don't worry bout yer heart. It won't turn t' stunif ye do keep it awhile. Allwus hev enough of it about ye t' do businesswith. Goodbye!'Chapter 15Gerald Brower, who was a baby when I came to live at Faraway, and wasnow eleven, had caught a cold in seed time, and he had never quiterecovered. His coughing had begun to keep him awake, and one night itbrought alarm to the whole household. Elizabeth Brower was up early inthe morning and called Uncle Eb, who went away for the doctor as soonas light came. We ate our breakfast in silence. Father and mother andGrandma Bisnette spoke only in low tones and somehow the anxiety intheir faces went to my heart. Uncle Eb returned about eight o'clock andsaid the doctor was coming. Old Doctor Bigsby was a very great man inthat country. Other physicians called him far and wide for consultation.I had always regarded him with a kind of awe intensified by the aroma ofhis drugs and the gleam of his lancet. Once I had been his patient andthen I had trembled at his approach. When he took my little wrist inhis big hand, I remember with what reluctance I stuck out my quiveringtongue, black, as I feared with evidences of prevarication.He was a picture for a painter man as he came that morning erect in hisgig. Who could forget the hoary majesty of his head--his 'stovepipe'tilted back, his white locks flying about his ears? He had a longnose, a smooth-shaven face and a left eye that was a trifle turned. Histhoughts were generally one day behind the calendar. Today he seemed tobe digesting the affairs of yesterday. He was, therefore, absentminded,to a degree that made no end of gossip. If he came out one day withshoe-strings flying, in his remorse the next he would forget his collar;if one told him a good joke today, he might not seem to hear it, buttomorrow he would take it up in its turn and shake with laughter.I remember how, that morning after noting the symptoms of his patient,he sat a little in silent reflection. He knew that colour in the cheek,that look in the eye--he had seen so much of it. His legs were crossedand one elbow thrown carelessly over the back of his chair. We all satlooking at him anxiously. In a moment he began chewing hard on hisquid of tobacco. Uncle Eb pushed the cuspidor a bit nearer. The doctorexpectorated freely and resumed his attitude of reflection. The clockticked loudly, the patient sighed, our anxiety increased. Uncle Eb spoketo father, in a low tone, whereupon the doctor turned suddenly, witha little grunt of enquiry, and seeing he was not addressed, sank againinto thoughtful repose. I had begun to fear the worst when suddenly thehand of the doctor swept the bald peak of benevolence at the top ofhis head. Then a smile began to spread over his face. It was as if somefeather of thought had begun to tickle him. In a moment his head wasnodding with laughter that brought a great sense of relief to all of us.In a slow, deliberate tone he began to speak:'I was over t' Rat Tupper's t'other day,' said he, 'Rat was sitting withme in the door yard. Purty soon a young chap came in, with a scythe,and asked if he might use the grindstun. He was a new hired man fromsomewhere near. He didn't know Rat, an' Rat didn't know him. So Rat o'course had t' crack one o' his jokes.'"May I use yer grindstun?" said the young feller.'"Dunno," said Rat, "I'm only the hired man here. Go an' ask Mis'Tupper."'The ol' lady had overheard him an' so she says t' the young feller,"Yes--ye can use the grindstun. The hired man out there'll turn it ferye."'Rat see he was trapped, an' so he went out under the plum tree, wherethe stun was, an' begun t' turn. The scythe was dull an' the youngfeller bore on harder'n wuz reely decent fer a long time. Rat begun t'git very sober lookin'.'"Ain't ye 'bout done," said he.'"Putty nigh," said the young feller bearin' down a leetle harder allthe time.'Rat made the stun go faster. Putty soon he asked agin, "Ain't ye doneyit?"'"Putty nigh!" says the other, feeling o' the edge.'"I'm done," said Rat, an' he let go o' the handle. "I dunno 'bout thescythe but I'm a good deal sharper'n I wuz."'"You're the hired man here ain't ye?" said the young feller.'"No, I ain't," said Rat. "'D rather own up t' bein' a liar than turnthat stun another minnit."As soon as he was fairly started with this droll narrative the strainof the situation was relieved. We were all laughing as much at hisdeliberate way of narration as at the story itself.Suddenly he turned to Elizabeth Brower and said, very soberly, 'Will youbring me some water in a glass?'Then he opened his chest of medicine, made some powders and told us howto give them.'In a few days I would take him into the big woods for a while,' hesaid. 'See how it agrees with him.'Then he gathered up his things and mother went with him to the gig.Humour was one of the specifics of Doctor Bigsby. He was always a poorman. He had a way of lumping his bills, at about so much, in settlementand probably never kept books. A side of pork paid for many a longjourney. He came to his death riding over the hills one bitter day notlong after the time of which I write, to reach a patient.The haying over, we made ready for our trip into the woods. Uncle Eb andTip Taylor, who knew the forest, and myself, were to go with Gerald toBlueberry Lake. We loaded our wagon with provisions one evening and madeready to be off at the break of day.Chapter 16I remember how hopefully we started that morning with Elizabeth Browerand Hope waving their handkerchiefs on the porch and David near themwhittling. They had told us what to do and what not to do over and overagain. I sat with Gerald on blankets that were spread over a thick matof hay. The morning air was sweet with the odour of new hay and themusic of the bobolink. Uncle Eb and Tip Taylor sang merrily as we rodeover the hills.When we entered the shade of the big forest Uncle Eb got out his rifleand loaded it. He sat a long time whispering and looking eagerly forgame to right and left. He was still a boy. One could see evidences ofage only in his white hair and beard and wrinkled brow. He retainedthe little tufts in front of his ears, and lately had grown a silvercrescent of thin and silky hair that circled his throat under a barechin. Young as I was I had no keener relish for a holiday than he. Atnoon we halted beside a brook and unhitched our horses. Then we caughtsome fish, built a fire and cooked them, and brewed our tea. At sunsetwe halted at Tuley Pond, looking along its reedy margin, under purpletamaracks, for deer. There was a great silence, here in the deep ofthe woods, and Tip Taylor's axe, while he peeled the bark for our camp,seemed to fill the wilderness with echoes. It was after dark when theshanty was covered and we lay on its fragrant mow of balsam and hemlock.The great logs that we had rolled in front of our shanty were set afireand shortly supper was cooking.Gerald had stood the journey well. Uncle Eb and he stayed in while Tipand I got our jack ready and went off in quest of a dugout He said BillEllsworth had one hid in a thicket on the south side of Tuley. We foundit after an hour's tramp near by. It needed a little repairing but wesoon made it water worthy, and then took our seats, he in the stern,with the paddle, and I in the bow with the gun. Slowly and silently weclove a way through the star-sown shadows. It was like the hushed andmystic movement of a dream. We seemed to be above the deep of heaven,the stars below us. The shadow of the forest in the still water lookedlike the wall of some mighty castle with towers and battlements andmyriads of windows lighted for a fete. Once the groan of a nighthawkfell out of the upper air with a sound like that of a stone striking inwater. I thought little of the deer Tip was after. His only aim in lifewas the one he got with a gun barrel. I had forgotten all but the beautyof the scene. Suddenly Tip roused me by laying his hand to the gunwaleand gently shaking the dugout. In the dark distance, ahead of us, Icould hear the faint tinkle of dripping water. Then I knew a deer wasfeeding not far away and that the water was falling from his muzzle.When I opened my jack we were close upon him. His eyes gleamed. I shothigh above the deer that went splashing ashore before I had pulled mytrigger. After the roar of the gun had got away, in the distant timber,Tip mentioned a place abhorred of all men, turned and paddled for thelanding.'Could 'a killed 'im with a club,' said he snickering. 'Guess he must alooked putty tall didn't he?''Why?' I asked.'Cos ye aimed into the sky,' said he. 'Mebbe ye thought he was a bird.''My hand trembled a little,' said I.''Minds me of Bill Barber,' he said in a half-whisper, as he worked hispaddle, chuckling with amusement.'How's that?' I asked.'Nothin' safe but the thing he shoots at,' said he. 'Terrible bad shot.Kills a cow every time he goes huntin'.'Uncle Eb was stirring the fire when we came whispering into camp, andGerald lay asleep under the blankets.'Willie couldn't hit the broadside of a bam,' said Tip. 'He don't taketo it nat'ral.''Killin' an' book learnin' don't often go together,' said Uncle Eb.I turned in by the side of Gerald and Uncle Eb went off with Tip foranother trip in the dugout. The night was chilly but the fire floodedour shanty with its warm glow. What with the light, and the boughs underus, and the strangeness of the black forest we got little sleep. I heardthe gun roar late in the night, and when I woke again Uncle Eb and TipTaylor were standing over the fire in the chilly grey of the morning.A dead deer hung on the limb of a tree near by. They began dressing itwhile Gerald and I went to the spring for water, peeled potatoes, andgot the pots boiling. After a hearty breakfast we packed up, and weresoon on the road again, reaching Blueberry Lake before noon. There wehired a boat of the lonely keeper of the reservoir, found an abandonedcamp with an excellent bark shanty and made ourselves at home.That evening in camp was one to be remembered. An Thomas, the guide whotended the reservoir, came over and sat beside our fire until bedtime.He had spent years in the wilderness going out for nothing lessimportant than an annual spree at circus time. He eyed us over, each inturn, as if he thought us all very rare and interesting.'Many bears here?' Uncle Eb enquired.'More plenty 'n human bein's,' he answered, puffing lazily at his pipewith a dead calm in his voice and manner that I have never seen equalledexcept in a tropic sea.'See 'em often?' I asked.He emptied his pipe, striking it on his palm until the bowl rang,without answering. Then he blew into the stem with great violence.'Three or four 'n a summer, mebbe,' he said at length.'Ever git sassy?' Uncle Eb asked.He whipped a coal out of the ashes then and lifted it in his fingers tothe bowl of his pipe.'Never real sassy,' he said between vigourous puffs. 'One stole a hamoff my pyazz las' summer; Al Fifield brought 't in fer me one day--smeltgood too! I kep' savin' uv it thinkin' I'd enjoy it all the more whenI did hev it. One day I went off cuttin' timber an' stayed 'til mos'night. Comin' home I got t' thinkin' o' thet ham, an' made up my mindI'd hev some fer supper. The more I thought uv it the faster I hurriedan' when I got hum I was hungrier'n I'd been fer a year. When I see theol' bear's tracks an' the empty peg where the ham had hung I went t'work an' got mad. Then I started after thet bear. Tracked 'im overyender, up Cat Mountin'.'Here Ab paused. He had a way of stopping always at the most interestingpoint to puff at his pipe. It looked as if he were getting up steam foranother sentence and these delays had the effect of 'continued in ournext'.'Kill 'im?' Uncle Eb asked.'Licked him,' he said.'Huh!' we remarked incredulously.'Licked 'im,' he repeated chucking. 'Went into his cave with a sledgestake an' whaled 'im--whaled 'im 'til he run fer his life.'Whether it was true or not I have never been sure, even to this day, butAb's manner was at once modest and convincing.'Should 'a thought he'd 'a rassled with ye,' Uncle Eb remarked.'Didn't give 'im time,' said Ab, as he took out his knife and beganslowly to sharpen a stick.'Don't never wan' t' rassle with no bear,' he added, 'but hams is tooscurce here 'n the woods t' hev 'em tuk away 'fore ye know the taste uv'em. I ain't never been hard on bears. Don't seldom ever set no trapsan' I ain't shot a bear fer mor'n 'n ten year. But they've got t' bedecent. If any bear steals my vittles he's goin' t' git cuffed bard.'Ab's tongue had limbered up at last. His pipe was going well and heseemed to have struck an easy grade. There was a tone of injury andaggrievement in his talk of the bear's ingratitude. He snailed over hiswhittling as we laughed heartily at the droll effect of it all.'D'ye ever hear o' the wild man 'at roams 'round'n these woods?' heasked.'Never did,' said Uncle Eb.'I've seen 'im more times 'n ye could shake a stick at,' said Abcrossing his legs comfortably and spitting into the fire. 'Kind o' thankhe's the same man folks tells uv down 'n Paradise Valley there--'at goes'round 'n the clearin' after bedtime.''The night man!' I exclaimed.'Guess thet's what they call 'im,' said Ab. 'Curus man! Sometimes I'vehed a good squint at 'im off 'n the woods. He's wilder 'n a deer an'I've seen 'im jump over logs, half as high as this shanty, jest as easyas ye 'd hop a twig. Tried t' foller 'im once er twice but tain' no use.He's quicker 'n a wil' cat.''What kind of a lookin' man is he?' Tip Taylor asked.'Great, big, broad-shouldered feller,' said Ab. 'Six feet tall if he'san inch. Hed a kind of a deerskin jacket on when I seen 'im an' breechesan' moccasins made o' some kind o' hide. I recollec' one day I was overon the ridge two mile er more from the Stillwater goin' south. I seen'im gittin' a drink at the spring there 'n the burnt timber. An' if Iain't mistaken there was a real live panther playin' 'round 'im. If 'twa'n't a panther 'twas pesky nigh it I can tell ye. The critter see mefast an' drew up 'is back. Then the man got up quickerin' a flash. Soon'she see me--Jeemimey! didn't they move. Never see no human critter runas he did! A big tree hed fell 'cross a lot o' bush right 'n his path.I'll be gol dummed if 'twan't higher 'n my head! But he cleared it--jestas easy as a grasshopper'd go over a straw. I'd like t' know wher hecomes from, gol dummed if I wouldn't. He's the consarndest queerestanimal 'n these woods.'Ab emphasised this lucid view of the night man by an animated movementof his fist that held the big hunting knife with which he whittled. Thenhe emptied his pipe and began cutting more tobacco.'Some says 'e 's a ghost,' said Tip Taylor, splitting his sentence witha yawn, as he lay on a buffalo robe in the shanty.'Shucks an' shoestrings!' said Ab, 'he looks too nat'ral. Don't believeno ghost ever wore whiskers an' long hair like his'n. Thet don't hol' t'reason.'This remark was followed by dead silence. Tip seemed to lack bothcourage and information with which to prolong the argument.Gerald had long been asleep and we were all worn out with uphilltravelling and the lack of rest. Uncle Eb went out to look after thehorses that were tethered near us. Ab rose, looked up through thetree-tops, ventured a guess about the weather, and strode off into thedarkness.We were five days in camp, hunting, fishing, fighting files andpicking blueberries. Gerald's cough had not improved at all--it was, ifanything, a bit worse than it had been and the worry of that had cloudedour holiday. We were not in high spirits when, finally, we decided tobreak camp the next afternoon.The morning of our fourth day at Blueberry Uncle Eb and I crossed thelake, at daylight, to fish awhile in Soda Brook and gather orchids thenabundant and beautiful in that part of the woods. We headed for campat noon and were well away from shore when a wild yell rang in the deadtimber that choked the wide inlet behind us. I was rowing and stoppedthe oars while we both looked back at the naked trees, belly deep in thewater.But for the dry limbs, here and there, they would have looked like mastsof sunken ships. In a moment another wild whoop came rushing over thewater. Thinking it might be somebody in trouble we worked about andpulled for the mouth of the inlet. Suddenly I saw a boat coming in thedead timber. There were three men in it, two of whom were paddling. Theyyelled like mad men as they caught sight of us, and one of them waved abottle in the air.'They're Indians,' said Uncle Eb. 'Drunk as lords. Guess we'd better gitout o' the way.'I put about and with a hearty pull made for the other side of the lake,three miles away. The Indians came after us, their yells echoing in thefar forest. Suddenly one of them lifted his rifle, as if taking aim atus, and, bang it went the ball ricocheting across our bows.'Crazy drunk,' said Uncle Eb, 'an' they're in fer trouble. Pull with allyer might.'I did that same putting my arms so stiffly to their task I feared theoars would break.In a moment another ball came splintering the gunwales right between us,but fortunately, well above the water line. Being half a mile from shoreI saw we were in great peril. Uncle Eb reached for his rifle, his handtrembling.'Sink 'em,' I shouted, 'an' do it quick or they'll sink us.'My old companion took careful aim and his ball hit them right on thestarboard bow below the water line. A splash told where it had landed.They stopped yelling. The man in the bow clapped his hat against theside of the boat.'Guess we've gin 'em a little business t' ten' to,' said Uncle Eb as hemade haste to load his rifle.The Indian at the bow was lifting his rifle again. He seemed to reel ashe took aim. He was very slow about it. I kept pulling as I watched him.I saw that their boat was slowly sinking. I had a strange fear that hewould hit me in the stomach. I dodged when I saw the flash of his rifle.His ball struck the water, ten feet away from us, and threw a spray intomy face.Uncle Eb had lifted his rifle to shoot again. Suddenly the Indian, whohad shot at us, went overboard. In a second they were all in the water,their boat bottom up.'Now take yer time,' said Uncle Eb coolly, a frown upon his face.'They'll drown,' said I.'Don't care if they do, consam 'em,' he answered. 'They're some o' themSt Regis devils, an' when they git whisky in 'em they'd jes' soon killye as look at ye. They am' no better 'n rats.'We kept on our way and by and by a wind came up that gave us both somecomfort, for we knew it would soon blow them ashore. Ab Thomas had cometo our camp and sat with Tip and Gerald when we got there. We told ofour adventure and then Ab gave us a bad turn, and a proper appreciationof our luck, by telling us that they were a gang of cut-throats--theworst in the wilderness.'They'd a robbed ye sure,' he said. 'It's the same gang 'at killed a manon Cat Mountain las' summer, an' I'll bet a dollar on it.'Tip had everything ready for our journey home. Each day Gerald had grownpaler and thinner. As we wrapped him in a shawl and tenderly helped himinto the wagon I read his doom in his face. We saw so much of that kindof thing in our stern climate we knew what it meant. Our fun was over.We sat in silence, speeding down the long hills in the fading light ofthe afternoon. Those few solemn hours in which I heard only the wagon'srumble and the sweet calls of the whip-poor-will-waves of music on a seaof silence-started me in a way of thought which has led me high and lowthese many years and still invites me. The day was near its end when wegot to the first big clearing. From the top of a high hill we could seeabove the far forest, the red rim of the setting sun, big with windingfrom the skein of day, that was now flying off the tree-tops in thewest.We stopped to feed the horses and to take a bite of jerked venison,wrapped ourselves warmer, for it was now dunk and chilly, and went onagain. The road went mostly downhill, going out of the woods, and wecould make good time. It was near midnight when we drove in at our gate.There was a light in the sitting-room and Uncle Eb and I went inwith Gerald at once. Elizabeth Brower knelt at the feet of her son,unbuttoned his coat and took off his muffler. Then she put her armsabout his neck while neither spoke nor uttered any sound. Both motherand son felt and understood and were silent. The ancient law of God,that rends asunder and makes havoc of our plans, bore heavy on them inthat moment, I have no doubt, but neither murmured. Uncle Eb began topump vigorously at the cistern while David fussed with the fire. We wereall quaking inwardly but neither betrayed a sign of it. It is a way thePuritan has of suffering. His emotions are like the deep undercurrentsof the sea.Chapter 17If I were writing a novel merely I should try to fill it with merrimentand good cheer. I should thrust no sorrow upon the reader save thathe might feel for having wasted his time. We have small need ofmanufactured sorrow when, truly, there is so much of the real thing onevery side of us. But this book is nothing more nor less than a history,and by the same token it cannot be all as I would have wished it.In October following the events of the last chapter, Gerald died ofconsumption, having borne a lingering illness with great fortitude.I, who had come there a homeless orphan in a basket, and who, with theGod-given eloquence of childhood had brought them to take me to theirhearts and the old man that was with me as well, was now the only sonleft to Elizabeth and David Brower. There were those who called it follyat the time they took us in, I have heard, but he who shall read thishistory to the end shall see how that kind of folly may profit one oreven many here in this hard world.It was a gloomy summer for all of us. The industry and patience withwhich Hope bore her trial, night and day, is the sweetest recollectionof my youth. It brought to her young face a tender soberness ofwomanhood--a subtle change of expression that made her all the more dearto me. Every day, rain or shine, the old doctor had come to visit hispatient, sometimes sitting an hour and gazing thoughtfully in his face,occasionally asking a question, or telling a quaint anecdote. And thencame the end.The sky was cold and grey in the late autumn and the leaves were drifteddeep in the edge of the woodlands when Hope and I went away to schooltogether at Hillsborough. Uncle Eb drove us to our boarding place intown. When we bade him goodbye and saw him driving away, alone in thewagon, we hardly dared look at each other for the tears in our eyes.David Brower had taken board for us at the house of one SolomonRollin--universally known as 'Cooky' Rollin; that was one of the firstthings I learned at the Academy. It seemed that many years ago he hadtaken his girl to a dance and offered her, in lieu of supper, cookiesthat he had thoughtfully brought with him. Thus cheaply he had come tolife-long distinction.'You know Rollin's Ancient History, don't you?' the young man asked whosat with me at school that first day.'Have it at home,' I answered, 'It's in five volumes.''I mean the history of Sol Rollin, the man you are boarding with,' saidhe smiling at me and then he told the story of the cookies.The principal of the Hillsborough Academy was a big, brawny bachelor ofScotch descent, with a stem face and cold, grey, glaring eyes. When hestood towering above us on his platform in the main room of the buildingwhere I sat, there was an alertness in his figure, and a look ofresponsibility in his face, that reminded me of the pictures of Napoleonat Waterloo. He always carried a stout ruler that had blistered a shankof every mischievous boy in school. As he stood by the line, that camemarching into prayers every morning he would frequently pull out a boy,administer a loud whack or two, shake him violently and force him into aseat. The day I began my studies at the Academy I saw him put two dentsin the wall with the heels of a young man who had failed in his algebra.To a bashful and sensitive youth, just out of a country home, the sightof such violence was appalling. My first talk with him, however, renewedmy courage. He had heard I was a good scholar and talked with me in afriendly way about my plans. Both Hope and I were under him inalgebra and Latin. I well remember my first error in his class. I hadmisconstrued a Latin sentence. He looked at me, a smile and a sneercrowding each other for possession of his face. In a loud, jeering tonehe cried: 'Mirabile dictu!'I looked at him in doubt of his meaning.'Mirabile dictu!' he shouted, his tongue trilling the r.I corrected my error.'Perfect!' he cried again. 'Puer pulchre! Next!'He never went further than that with me in the way of correction. Mysize and my skill as a wrestler, that shortly ensured for me the respectof the boys, helped me to win the esteem of the master. I learned mylessons and kept out of mischief. But others of equal proficiency werenot so fortunate. He was apt to be hard on a light man who could behandled without over-exertion.Uncle Eb came in to see me one day and sat awhile with me in my seat.While he was there the master took a boy by the collar and almostliterally wiped the blackboard with him. There was a great clatter ofheels for a moment. Uncle Eb went away shortly and was at Sol Rollin'swhen I came to dinner.'Powerful man ain't he?' said Uncle Eb.'Rather,' I said.'Turned that boy into a reg'lar horse fiddle,' he remarked. 'Must 'aveunsot his reason.''Unnecessary!' I said.'Reminded me o' the time 'at Tip Taylor got his tooth pulled,' said he.'Shook 'im up so 'at he thought he'd had his neck put out o' ji'nt.'Sol Rollin was one of my studies that winter. He was a carpenter bytrade and his oddities were new and delightful. He whistled as heworked, he whistled as he read, he whistled right merrily as he walkedup and down the streets--a short, slight figure with a round boyish faceand a fringe of iron-grey hair under his chin. The little man had onebig passion--that for getting and saving. The ancient thrift of his racehad pinched him small and narrow as a foot is stunted by a tight shoe.His mind was a bit out of register as we say in the printing business.His vocabulary was rich and vivid and stimulating.'Somebody broke into the arsenic today,' he announced, one evening, atthe supper table.'The arsenic,' said somebody, 'what arsenic?''Why the place where they keep the powder,' he answered.'Oh! the arsenal.''Yes, the arsenal,' he said, cackling with laughter at his error. Thenhe grew serious.'Stole all the ambition out of it,' he added.'You mean ammunition, don't you, Solomon?' his wife enquired.'Certainly,' said he, 'wasn't that what I said.'When he had said a thing that met his own approval Sol Rollin wouldcackle most cheerfully and then crack a knuckle by twisting a finger.His laugh was mostly out of register also. It had a sad lack ofrelevancy. He laughed on principle rather than provocation. Some sort ofsecret comedy of which the world knew nothing, was passing in his mind;it seemed to have its exits and its entrances, its villain, its clownand its miser who got all the applause.While working his joy was unconfined. Many a time I have sat and watchedhim in his little shop, its window dim with cobwebs. Sometimes he wouldstop whistling and cackle heartily as he worked his plane or drew hispencil to the square. I have even seen him drop his tools and give hisundivided attention to laughter. He did not like to be interrupted--heloved his own company the best while he was 'doin' business'. I went oneday when he was singing the two lines and their quaint chorus which wasall he ever sang in my hearing; which gave him great relief, I have nodoubt, when lip weary with whistling:  Sez I 'Dan'l Skinner, I thank yer mighty mean  To send me up the river, With a sev'n  dollar team'  Lul-ly, ul--ly, diddie ul--ly, diddleul--lydee, Oh,  lul-ly, ul--ly, diddle ul--ly, diddle ul--ly dee.'Mr Rollin!' I said.Yes siree,' said he, pausing in the midst of his chorus to look up atme.'Where can I get a piece of yellow pine?''See 'n a minute,' he said. Then he continued his sawing and his song,'"Says I Dan Skinner, I thank yer mighty mean"--what d' ye want it fer?'he asked stopping abruptly.'Going to make a ruler,' I answered.'"T' sen' me up the river with a seven dollar team,"' he went on,picking out a piece of smooth planed lumber, and handing it to me.'How much is it worth?' I enquired.He whistled a moment as he surveyed it carefully.''Bout one cent,' he answered seriously.I handed him the money and sat down awhile to watch him as he went onwith his work. It was the cheapest amusement I have yet enjoyed. IndeedSol Rollin became a dissipation, a subtle and seductive habit that grewupon me and on one pretext or another I went every Saturday to the shopif I had not gone home.'What ye goin' t' be?'He stopped his saw, and looked at me, waiting for my answer.At last the time had come when I must declare myself and I did.'A journalist,' I replied.'What's that?' he enquired curiously.'An editor,' I said.'A printer man?''A printer man.''Huh!' said he. 'Mebbe I'll give ye a job. Sairey tol' me I'd orter t''ave some cards printed. I'll want good plain print: Solomon Rollin,Cappenter 'n J'iner, Hillsborough, NY--soun's putty good don't it.''Beautiful,' I answered.'I'll git a big lot on 'em,' he said. 'I'll want one for Sister Susan'at's out in Minnesoty--no, I guess I'll send 'er tew, so she can giveone away--an' one fer my brother, Eliphalet, an' one apiece fer my threecousins over 'n Vermont, an' one fer my Aunt Mirandy. Le's see-tew an'one is three an' three is six an' one is seven. Then I'll git a fewstruck off fer the folks here--guess they'll thank I'm gittin' up 'n theworld.'He shook and snickered with anticipation of the glory of it. Pure vanityinspired him in the matter and it had in it no vulgar consideration ofbusiness policy. He whistled a lively tune as he bent to his work again.'Yer sister says ye're a splendid scholar!' said he. 'Hear'n 'erbraggin' 'bout ye t'other night; she thinks a good deal o' her brother,I can tell ye. Guess I know what she's gain' t' give ye Crissmus.''What's that?' I asked, with a curiosity more youthful than becoming.'Don't ye never let on,' said he.'Never,' said I.'Hear'n 'em tell,' he said,' 'twas a gol' lockup, with 'er pictur' init.''Oh, a locket!' I exclaimed.'That's it,' he replied, 'an' pure gol', too.'I turned to go.'Hope she'll grow up a savin' woman,' he remarked. ''Fraid she won'tnever be very good t' worlt.''Why not?' I enquired.'Han's are too little an' white,' he answered.'She won't have to,' I said.He cackled uproariously for a moment, then grew serious.'Her father's rich,' he said, 'the richest man o' Faraway, an Iguess she won't never hev anything t' dew but set'n sing an' play themelodium.''She can do as she likes,' I said.He stood a moment looking down as if meditating on the delights he hadpictured.'Gol!' he exclaimed suddenly.My subject had begun to study me, and I came away to escape furtherexamination.Chapter 18I ought to say that I have had and shall have to chronicle herein muchthat would seem to indicate a mighty conceit of myself. Unfortunatelythe little word 'I' throws a big shadow in this history. It looms up alltoo frequently in every page for the sign of a modest man. But, indeed,I cannot help it, for he was the only observer of all there is to tell.Now there is much, for example, in the very marrow of my history--thingsthat never would have happened, things that never would have been said,but for my fame as a scholar. My learning was of small account, for,it must be remembered, I am writing of a time when any degree ofscholarship was counted remarkable among the simple folk of Faraway.Hope took singing lessons and sang in church every Sunday. David orUncle Eb came down for us often of a Saturday and brought us back beforeservice in the morning. One may find in that town today many who willlove to tell him of the voice and beauty and sweetness of Hope Browerthose days, and of what they expected regarding her and me. We wentout a good deal evenings to concerts, lectures at the churches or thecollege, or to visit some of the many people who invited us to theirhomes.We had a recess of two weeks at the winter holidays and David Browercame after us the day the term ended. O, the great happiness of thatday before Christmas when we came flying home in the sleigh behind a newteam of greys and felt the intoxication of the frosty air, and drove inat dusk after the lamps were lit and we could see mother and Uncle Eband Grandma Bisnette looking out of the window, and a steaming dinner onthe table! I declare! it is long since then, but I cannot ever think ofthat time without wiping my glasses and taking a moment off. Tip Taylortook the horses and we all came in where the kettle was singing on thestove and loving hands helped us out of our wraps. The supper was amerry feast, the like of which one may find only by returning to hisboyhood. Mack! that is a long journey for some of us.Supper over and the dishes out of the way we gathered about the stovewith cider and butternuts.'Well,' said Hope, 'I've got some news to tell you--this boy is the bestscholar of his age in this county.''Thet so?' said David.Uncle Eb stopped his hmnmer that was lifted to crack a butternut andpulled his chair close to Hope's. Elizabeth looked at her daughter andthen at me, a smile and a protest in her face.'True as you live,' said Hope. 'The master told me so. He's first ineverything, and in the Town Hall the other night he spelt everybodydown.''What! In Hillsborough?' Uncle Eb asked incredulously.'Yes, in Hillsborough,' said Hope, 'and there were doctors and lawyersand college students and I don't know who all in the match.''Most reemarkable!' said David Brower.'Treemenjious!' exclaimed Uncle Eb.'I heard about it over at the mills t'day,' said Tip Taylor.'Merd Dieu!' exclaimed Grandma Bisnette, crossing herself.Elizabeth Brower was unable to stem this tide of enthusiasm. I had triedto stop it, but, instantly, it had gone beyond my control. If I could behurt by praise the mischief had been done.'It's very nice, indeed,' said she soberly. 'I do hope it won't make himconceited. He should remember that people do not always mean what theysay.''He's too sensible for that, mother,' said David.'Shucks!' said Uncle Eb, 'he ain' no fool if he is a good speller--notby a dum sight!''Tip,' said David, 'you'll find a box in the sleigh 'at come by express.I wish ye'd go'n git it.'We all stood looking while Tip brought it in and pried off the topboards with a hatchet.'Careful, now!' Uncle Eb cautioned him. 'Might spile sumthin'.'The top off, Uncle Eb removed a layer of pasteboard. Then he pulled outa lot of coloured tissue paper, and under that was a package, wrappedand tied. Something was written on it. He held it up and tried to readthe writing.'Can't see without my spectacles,' he said, handing it to me.'For Hope,' I read, as I passed it to her.'Hooray!' said Uncle Eb, as he lifted another, and the last package,from the box.'For Mrs Brower,' were the words I read upon that one.The strings were cut, the wrappers torn away, and two big rolls of shinysilk loosened their coils on the table. Hope uttered a cry of delight. Amurmur of surprise and admiration passed from one to another. Elizabethlifted a rustling fold and held it to the lamplight We passed our handsover the smooth sheen of the silk.'Wall, I swan!' said Uncle Eb. 'Jes' like a kitten's ear!''Eggzac'ly!' said David Brower.Elizabeth lifted the silk and let it flow to her feet Then for a littleshe looked down, draping it to her skirt and moving her foot to make thesilk rustle. For the moment she was young again.'David,' she said, still looking at the glory of glossy black thatcovered her plain dress.'Well, mother,' he answered.'Was you fool enough t' go'n buy this stuff fer me?''No, mother--it come from New York City,' he said.'From New York City?' was the exclamation of all.Elizabeth Brower looked thoughtfully at her husband.'Clear from New York City?' she repeated.'From New York City,' said he.'Wall, of all things!' said Uncle Eb, looking over his spectacles fromone to another.'It's from the Livingstone boy,' said Mrs Brower. 'I've heard he's theson of a rich man.'''Fraid he took a great fancy t' Hope,' said David.'Father,' said the girl, you've no right to say that. I'm sure he nevercared a straw for me.''I don't think we ought to keep it,' said Mrs Brower, looking upthoughtfully.'Shucks and shavin's!' said Uncle Eb. 'Ye don't know but what I had itsent myself.'Hope went over and put her arms around his neck.'Did you, Uncle Eb?' she asked. 'Now you tell me the truth, Uncle Eb.''Wouldn't say 't I did,' he answered, 'but I don' want 'a see ye gosendin' uv it back. Ye dunno who sent it.''What'll I do with it?' Mrs Brower asked, laughing in a way that showeda sense of absurdity. 'I'd a been tickled with it thirty years ago, butnow-folks 'ud think I was crazy.''Never heard such fol de rol,' said Uncle Eb. 'If ye move t' the villageit'll come handy t' go t' meetin' in.'That seemed to be unanswerable and conclusive, at least for the timebeing, and the silk was laid away. We sat talking until late bedtime,Hope and I, telling of our studies and of the many people we had met inHillsborough.We hung up our stockings just as we had always done Christmas Eve, andwere up betimes in the morning to find them filled with many simple butdelightful things, and one which I treasure to this day--the locket andits picture of which I had been surreptitiously informed.At two o'clock we had a fine dinner of roast turkey and chicken pie,with plenty of good cider, and the mince pie, of blessed memory, such asonly a daughter of New England may dare try to make.Uncle Eb went upstairs after dinner and presently we heard himdescending with a slow and heavy foot. I opened the stair door and therehe stood with the old bass viol that had long lain neglected in a dustycorner of the attic. Many a night I had heard it groan as the stringsloosened, in the years it had lain on its back, helpless and forgotten.It was like a dreamer, snoring in his sleep, and murmuring of thathe saw in his dreams. Uncle Eb had dusted and strung it and glued itsweaker joints. He sat down with it, the severe look of old upon hisface, and set the strings roaring as he tuned them. Then he brought thesacred treasure to me and leaned it against my shoulder.'There that's a Crissmus present fer ye, Willie,' said he. 'It may helpye t' pass away the time once in a while.'I thanked him warmly.''S a reel firs'-class instrument,' he said. 'Been a rip snorter 'n itsday.' He took from his bosom then the old heart pin of silver that hehad always worn of a Sunday.'Goin' t' give ye thet, too,' he said. 'Dunno's ye'll ever care towear it, but I want ye should hev sumthin' ye can carry'n yer pocket t'remember me by.'I did not dare trust myself to speak, and I sat helplessly turning thatrelic of a better day in my fingers.'It's genuwine silver,' said he proudly.I took his old hand in mine and raised it reverently to my lips.'Hear'n 'em tell 'bout goin' t' the village, an' I says t' myself,"Uncle Eb," says I, "we'll hev t' be goin'. 'Tain' no place fer you inthe village."''Holden,' said David Brower, 'don't ye never talk like that ag'in. Yerjust the same as married t' this family, an' ye can't ever git away fromus.'And he never did until his help was needed in other and fairer fields, Iam sure, than those of Faraway--God knows where.Chapter 19Tip Taylor was, in the main, a serious-minded man. A cross eye enhancedthe natural solemnity of his countenance. He was little given to talk orlaughter unless he were on a hunt, and then he only whispered his joy.He had seen a good bit of the world through the peek sight of his rifle,and there was something always in the feel of a gun that lifted him tohigher moods. And yet one could reach a tender spot in him without theaid of a gun. That winter vacation I set myself to study things fordeclamation--specimens of the eloquence of Daniel Webster and Henry Clayand James Otis and Patrick Henry. I practiced them in the barn, often,in sight and hearing of the assembled herd and some of those fierypassages were rather too loud and threatening for the peace and comfortof my audience. The oxen seemed always to be expecting the sting of thebull whip; they stared at me timidly, tilting their ears every moment,as if to empty them of a heavy load; while the horses snorted withapprehension. This haranguing of the herd had been going on a week ormore when Uncle Eb and I, returning from a distant part of the farm,heard a great uproar in the stable. Looking in at a window we saw TipTaylor, his back toward us, extemporising a speech. He was pressing hisargument with gestures and the tone of thunder. We listened a moment,while a worried look came over the face of Uncle Eb. Tip's words weremeaningless save for the secret aspiration they served to advertise. Myold companion thought Tip had gone crazy, and immediately swung the doorand stepped in. The orator fell suddenly from his lofty altitude andbecame a very sober looking hired man.'What's the matter?' Uncle Eb enquired.'Practicin',' said Tip soberly, as he turned slowly, his face damp andred with exertion.'Fer what?' Uncle Eb enquired.'Fer the 'sylum, I guess,' he answered, with a faint smile.'Ye don' need no more practice,' Uncle Eb answered. 'Looks t' me asthough ye was purty well prepared.'To me there was a touch of pathos in this show of the deeper things inTip's nature that had been kindled to eruption by my spouting. He wouldnot come in to dinner that day, probably from an unfounded fear that wewould make fun of his flight--a thing we should have been far from doingonce we understood him.It was a bitter day of one of the coldest winters we had ever known. Ashrieking wind came over the hills, driving a scud of snow before itThe stock in the stables, we all came in, soon after dinner, and satcomfortably by the fire with cider, checkers and old sledge. The dismalroar of the trees and the wind-wail in the chimney served only toincrease our pleasure. It was growing dusk when mother, peeringthrough the sheath of frost on a window pane, uttered an exclamation ofsurprise.'Why! who is this at the door?' said she. 'Why! It's a man in a cutter.'Father was near the door and he swung it open quickly. There stood ahorse and cutter, a man sitting in it, heavily muffled. The horse wasshivering and the man sat motionless.'Hello!' said David Brower in a loud voice.He got no answer and ran bareheaded to the sleigh.'Come, quick, Holden,' he called, 'it's Doctor Bigsby.'We all ran out then, while David lifted the still figure in his arms.'In here, quick!' said Elizabeth, opening the door to the parlour.'Musn't take 'im near the stove.'We carried him into the cold room and laid him down, and David and Itore his wraps open while the others ran quickly after snow.I rubbed it vigorously upon his face and ears, the others meantimeapplying it to his feet and arms, that had been quickly stripped. Thedoctor stared at us curiously and tried to speak.'Get ap, Dobbin!' he called presently, and ducked as if urging hishorse. 'Get ap, Dobbin! Man'll die 'fore ever we git there.'We all worked upon him with might and main. The white went slowly out ofhis face. We lifted him to a sitting posture. Mother and Hope and UncleEb were rubbing his hands and feet.'Where am I?' he enquired, his face now badly swollen.'At David Brower's,' said I.'Huh?' he asked, with that kindly and familiar grunt of interrogation.'At David Brower's,' I repeated.'Well, I'll have t' hurry,' said he, trying feebly to rise. 'Man's dyin'over--' he hesitated thoughtfully, 'on the Plains,' he added, lookingaround at us.Grandma Bisnette brought a lamp and held it so the light fell on hisface. He looked from one to another. He drew one of his hands away andstared at it.'Somebody froze?' he asked.'Yes,' said I.'Hm! Too bad. How'd it happen?' he asked. 'I don't know.''How's the pulse?' he enquired, feeling for my wrist.I let him hold it in his hand.'Will you bring me some water in a glass?' he enquired, turning toMrs Brower, just as I had seen him do many a time in Gerald's illness.Before she came with the water his head fell forward upon his breast,while he muttered feebly. I thought then he was dead, but presently heroused himself with a mighty effort.'David Brower!' he called loudly, and trying hard to rise, 'bring thehorse! bring the horse! Mus' be goin', I tell ye. Man's dyin' over--onthe Plains.'He went limp as a rag then. I could feel his heart leap and strugglefeebly.'There's a man dyin' here,' said David Brower, in a low tone. 'Yeneedn't rub no more.'He's dead,' Elizabeth whispered, holding his hand tenderly, and lookinginto his half-closed eyes. Then for a moment she covered her own withher handkerchief, while David, in a low, calm tone, that showed thedepth of his feeling, told us what to do.Uncle Eb and I watched that night, while Tip Taylor drove away totown. The body lay in the parlour and we sat by the stove in the roomadjoining. In a half-whisper we talked of the sad event of the day.'Never oughter gone out a day like this,' said Uncle Eb. 'Don' take mucht' freeze an ol' man.''Got to thinking of what happened yesterday and forgot the cold,' Isaid.'Bad day t' be absent-minded,' whispered Uncle Eb, as he rose andtiptoed to the window and peered through the frosty panes. 'May o' gotfaint er sumthin'. Ol' hoss brought 'im right here--been here s' oftenwith 'in'.'He took the lantern and went out a moment. The door creaked upon itsfrosty hinges when he opened it.'Thirty below zero,' he whispered as he came in. 'Win's gone down aleetle bit, mebbe.'Uncanny noises broke in upon the stillness of the old house. Itstimbers, racked in the mighty grip of the cold, creaked and settled.Sometimes there came a sharp, breaking sound, like the crack of bones.'If any man oughter go t' Heaven, he had,' said Uncle Eb, as he drew onhis boots.'Think he's in Heaven?' I asked.'Hain't a doubt uv it,' said he, as he chewed a moment, preparing forexpectoration.'What kind of a place do you think it is?' I asked.'Fer one thing,' he said, deliberately, 'nobody'll die there, 'lesshe'd ought to; don't believe there's goin' t' be any need o' swearin'er quarrellin'. To my way o' thinkin' it'll be a good deal like DaveBrower's farm--nice, smooth land and no stun on it, an' hills an'valleys an' white clover aplenty, an' wheat an' corn higher'n a man'shead. No bull thistles, no hard winters, no narrer contracted fools;no long faces, an' plenty o' work. Folks sayin' "How d'y do" 'stid o'"goodbye", all the while--comin' 'stid o' gain'. There's goin' t' besome kind o' fun there. I ain' no idee what 'tis. Folks like it an' Ikind o' believe 'at when God's gin a thing t' everybody he thinks purtymiddlin' well uv it.''Anyhow, it seems a hard thing to die,' I remarked.'Seems so,' he said thoughtfully. 'Jes' like ever'thing else--them 'atknows much about it don' have a great deal t' say. Looks t' me likethis: I cal'ate a man hes on the everidge ten things his heart is soton--what is the word I want--?''Treasures?' I suggested.'Thet's it,' said he. 'Ev'ry one hes about ten treasures. Some hevmore--some less. Say one's his strength, one's his plan, the rest isthem he loves, an' the more he loves the better 'tis fer him. Wall, theybegin t' go one by one. Some die, some turn agin' him. Fin's it hard t'keep his allowance. When he's only nine he's lost eggzac'ly one-tenth uvhis dread o' dyin'. Bime bye he counts up--one-two-three-four-five-an'thet's all ther is left. He figgers it up careful. His strength is gone,his plan's a fillure, mebbe, an' this one's dead an' thet one's dead,an' t'other one better be. Then 's 'bout half-ways with him. If helives till the ten treasures is all gone, God gives him one more--thet'sdeath. An' he can swop thet off an' git back all he's lost. Then hebegins t' think it's a purty dum good thing, after all. Purty goodthing, after all,' he repeated, gaping as he spoke.He began nodding shortly, and soon he went asleep in his chair.Chapter 20We went back to our work again shortly, the sweetness and the bitternessof life fresh in our remembrance. When we came back, 'hook an' line',for another vacation, the fields were aglow with colour, and the roadswhere Dr Bigsby had felt the sting of death that winter day were nowover drifted with meadow-music and the smell of clover. I had creditablytaken examination for college, where I was to begin my course in thefall, with a scholarship. Hope had made remarkable progress in music andwas soon going to Ogdensburg for instruction.A year had gone, nearly, since Jed Feary had cautioned me about fallingin love. I had kept enough of my heart about me 'to do business with',but I had continued to feel an uncomfortable absence in the region ofit. Young men at Hillsborough--many of whom, I felt sure, had a smarterlook than I--had bid stubbornly for her favour. I wondered, often, itdid not turn her head--this tribute of rustic admiration. But she seemedto be all unconscious of its cause and went about her work with smallconceit of herself. Many a time they had tried to take her from my armat the church door--a good-natured phase of youthful rivalry there inthose days--but she had always said, laughingly, 'No, thank you,' andclung all the closer to me. Now Jed Feary had no knowledge of the worryit gave me, or of the peril it suggested. I knew that, if I felt freeto tell him all, he would give me other counsel. I was now seventeen andshe a bit older, and had I not heard of many young men and women who hadbeen engaged--aye, even married--at that age? Well, as it happened, aday before she left us, to go to her work in Ogdensburg, where she wasto live with her uncle, I made an end of delay. I considered carefullywhat a man ought to say in the circumstances, and I thought I had nearan accurate notion. We were in the garden--together--the playground ofour childhood.'Hope, I have a secret to tell you,' I said.'A secret,' she exclaimed eagerly. 'I love secrets.''A great secret,' I repeated, as I felt my face burning.'Why--it must be something awful!''Not very,' I stammered. Having missed my cue from the beginning, I wasnow utterly confused.'William!' she exclaimed, 'what is the matter of you.''I--I am in love,' said I, very awkwardly.'Is that all?' she answered, a trace of humour in her tone. 'I thoughtit was bad news.'I stooped to pick a rose and handed it to her.'Well,' she remarked soberly, but smiling a little, as she lifted therose to her lips, 'is it anyone I know?'I felt it was going badly with me, but caught a sudden inspiration.'You have never seen her,' I said.If she had suspected the truth I had turned the tables on her, and nowshe was guessing. A quick change came into her face, and, for a moment,it gave me confidence.'Is she pretty?' she asked very seriously as she dropped the flower andlooked down crushing it beneath her foot.'She is very beautiful--it is you I love, Hope.'A flood of colour came into her cheeks then, as she stood a momentlooking down at the flower in silence.'I shall keep your secret,' she said tenderly, and hesitating as shespoke, 'and when you are through college--and you are older--and Iam older--and you love me as you do now--I hope--I shall love you,too--as--I do now.'Her lips were trembling as she gave me that sweet assurance--dearer tome--far dearer than all else I remember of that golden time--and tearswere coursing down her cheeks. For myself I was in a worse plight ofemotion. I dare say she remembered also the look of my face in thatmoment.'Do not speak of it again,' she said, as we walked away together on theshorn sod of the orchard meadow, now sown with apple blossoms, 'until weare older, and, if you never speak again, I shall know you--you do notlove me any longer.'The dinner horn sounded. We turned and walked slowly back'Do I look all right?' she asked, turning her face to me and smilingsweetly.'All right,' I said. 'Nobody would know that anyone loved you--exceptfor your beauty and that one tear track on your cheek.'She wiped it away as she laughed.'Mother knows anyway,' she said, 'and she has given me good advice.Wait!' she added, stopping and turning to me. 'Your eyes are wet!'I felt for my handkerchief.'Take mine,' she said.Elder Whitmarsh was at the house and they were all sitting down todinner as we came in.'Hello!' said Uncle Eb. 'Here's a good-lookin' couple. We've got achicken pie an' a Baptis' minister fer dinner an' both good. Take yerpew nex' t' the minister,' he added as he held the chair for me.Then we all bowed our heads and I felt a hearty amen for the elder'swords:'O Lord, may all our doing and saying and eating and drinking of thisday be done, as in Thy sight, for our eternal happiness--and for Thyglory. Amen.'Chapter 21We have our secrets, but, guard them as we may, it is not long beforeothers have them also. We do much talking without words. I once knew aman who did his drinking secretly and his reeling in public, and thoughthe was fooling everybody. That shows how much easier it is for one tofool himself than to fool another. What is in a man's heart is on hisface, and is shortly written all over him. Therein is a mighty lesson.Of all people I ever knew Elizabeth Brower had the surest eye forlooking into one's soul, and I, myself, have some gift of penetration.I knew shortly that Mrs Brower--wise and prudent woman that she was--hadsuspected my love for Hope and her love for me, and had told her whatshe ought to say if I spoke of it.The maturity of judgement in Hope's answer must have been the result ofmuch thought and counsel, it seemed to me.'If you do not speak again I shall know you do not love me any longer,'she had said. They were brave words that stood for something very deepin the character of those people--a self-repression that was sublime,often, in their women. As I said them to myself, those lonely summerdays in Faraway, I saw in their sweet significance no hint of thebitterness they were to bring. But God knows I have had my share ofpleasure and no more bitterness than I deserved.It was a lonely summer for me. I had letters from Hope--ten ofthem--which I still keep and read, often with something of the oldpleasure--girlish letters that told of her work and friends, and gave mesome sweet counsel and much assurance between the lines.I travelled in new roads that vacation time. Politics and religion,as well as love, began to interest me. Slavery was looming into theproportion of a great issue, and the stories of cruelty and outrage onthe plantations of the South stirred my young blood and made it readyfor the letting of battle, in God's time. The speeches in the Senatewere read aloud in our sitting-room after supper--the day the Tribunecame--and all lent a tongue to their discussion. Jed Feary was with usone evening, I remember, when our talk turned into long ways, the endof which I have never found to this day. Elizabeth had been reading of aslave, who, according to the paper, had been whipped to death.'If God knows 'at such things are bein' done, why don't he stop 'em?'David asked.'Can't very well,' said Jed Feary.'Can, if he's omnipotent,' said David.'That's a bad word--a dangerous one,' said the old poet, dropping hisdialect as he spoke. 'It makes God responsible for evil as well as good.The word carries us beyond our depth. It's too big for our boots. I'druther think He can do what's doable an' know what's knowable. In thebeginning he gave laws to the world an' these laws are unchangeable,or they are not wise an' perfect. If God were to change them He wouldthereby acknowledge their imperfection. By this law men and races sufferas they struggle upward. But if the law is unchangeable, can it bechanged for a better cause even than the relief of a whipped slave?In good time the law shall punish and relieve. The groans of them thatsuffer shall hasten it, but there shall be no change in the law. Therecan be no change in the law.''Leetle hard t' tell jest how powerful God is,' said Uncle Eb. 'Gooddeal like tryin' t' weigh Lake Champlain with a quart pail and a pair o'steelyards.''If God's laws are unchangeable, what is the use of praying?' I asked.'He can give us the strength to bear, the will to obey him an' light toguide us,' said the poet. 'I've written out a few lines t' read t' Billhere 'fore he goes off t' college. They have sumthin' t' say on thissubject. The poem hints at things he'd ought 'o learn purty soon--if hedon't know 'em now.'The old poet felt in his pockets as he spoke, and withdrew a foldedsheet of straw-coloured wrapping paper and opened it. I was 'Bill'-plain'Bill'--to everybody in that country, where, as you increased your loveof a man, you diminished his name. I had been called Willie, Williamand Billy, and finally, when I threw the strong man of the township in awrestling match they gave me this full token of confidence. I bent overthe shoulder of Jed Feary for a view of the manuscript, closely writtenwith a lead pencil, and marked with many erasures.'Le's hear it,' said David Brower.Then I moved the lamp to his elbow and he began reading:'A talk with William Brower on the occasion of his going away to collegeand writ out in rhyme for him by his friend Jedediah Feary to be a tokenof respect.  The man that loses faith in God, ye'll find out every time,  Has found a faith in his own self that's mighty nigh sublime.  He knows as much as all the saints an' calls religion flighty,  An' in his narrow world assumes the place o' God Almighty.  But don't expect too much o' God, it wouldn't be quite fair  If fer everything ye wanted ye could only swap a prayer;  I'd pray fer yours an' you fer mine an' Deacon Henry Hospur  He wouldn't hev a thing t' do but lay a-bed an' prosper.  If all things come so easy, Bill, they'd hev but little worth,  An' someone with a gift O' prayer 'ud mebbe own the earth.  It's the toil ye give t' git a thing--the sweat an' blood an' trouble  We reckon by--an' every tear'll make its value double.  There's a money O' the soul, my boy, ye'll find in after years,  Its pennies are the sweat drops an' its dollars are the tears;  An' love is the redeemin' gold that measures what they're worth,  An' ye'll git as much in Heaven as ye've given out on earth.  Fer the record o' yer doin'--I believe the soul is planned  With an automatic register t, tell jest how ye stand,  An' it won't take any cipherin' t' show that fearful day,  If ye've multiplied yer talents well, er thrown 'em all away.  When yer feet are on the summit, an' the wide horizon clears,  An' ye look back on yer pathway windin' thro' the vale o' tears;  When ye see how much ye've trespassed an' how fur ye've gone astray,  Ye'll know the way o' Providence ain't apt t' be your way.  God knows as much as can be known, but I don't think it's true  He knows of all the dangers in the path o' me an' you.  If I shet my eyes an' hurl a stone that kills the King o' Siam,  The chances are that God'll be as much surprised as I am.  If ye pray with faith believin', why, ye'll certnly receive,  But that God does what's impossible is more than I'll believe.  If it grieves Him when a sparrow falls, it's sure as anything,  He'd hev turned the arrow if He could, that broke the sparrow's wing.  Ye can read old Nature's history thet's writ in rocks an' stones,  Ye can see her throbbin' vitals an' her mighty rack o' hones.  But the soul o' her--the livin' God, a little child may know  No lens er rule o' cipherin' can ever hope t' show.  There's a part o' Cod's creation very handy t' yer view,  Al' the truth o' life is in it an' remember, Bill, it's you.  An' after all yer science ye must look up in yer mind,  An' learn its own astronomy the star o' peace t' find.  There's good old Aunt Samanthy Jane thet all her journey long  Has led her heart to labour with a reveille of song.  Her folks hev robbed an' left her but her faith in goodness grows,  She hasn't any larnin', but I tell ye Bill, she knows!  She's hed her share o' troubles; I remember well the day  We took her t' the poorhouse--she was singin' all the way;  Ye needn't be afraid t' come where stormy Jordan flows,  If all the larnin' ye can git has taught ye halfshe knows.'I give this crude example of rustic philosophy, not because it has myendorsement--God knows I have ever felt it far beyond me--but because itis useful to those who may care to know the man who wrote it. I give itthe poor fame of these pages with keen regret that my friend is now longpassed the praise or blame of this world.Chapter 22The horse played a part of no small importance in that country. He wasthe coin of the realm, a medium of exchange, a standard of value, anexponent of moral character. The man that travelled without a horse wason his way to the poorhouse. Uncle Eb or David Brower could tell a goodhorse by the sound of his footsteps, and they brought into St LawrenceCounty the haughty Morgans from Vermont. There was more pride in theirhigh heads than in any of the good people. A Northern Yankee who was notcarried away with a fine horse had excellent self-control. Politics andthe steed were the only things that ever woke him to enthusiasm, andthere a man was known as he traded. Uncle Eb used to say that oneought always to underestimate his horse 'a leetle fer the sake of areputation'.We needed another horse to help with the haying, and Bob Dean, a trickytrader, who had heard of it, drove in after supper one evening, andoffered a rangy brown animal at a low figure. We looked him over, triedhim up and down the road, and then David, with some shrewd suspicion,as I divined later, said I could do as I pleased. I bought the horse andled him proudly to the stable. Next morning an Irishman, the extra manfor the haying, came in with a worried look to breakfast.'That new horse has a chittern' kind of a coff,' he said.'A cough?' said I.''Tain't jist a coff, nayther,' he said, 'but a kind of toom!'With the last word he obligingly imitated the sound of the cough. Itthrew me into perspiration.'Sounds bad,' said Uncle Eb, as he looked at me and snickered.''Fraid Bill ain't much of a jockey,' said David, smiling.'Got a grand appetite--that hoss has,' said Tip Taylor.After breakfast Uncle Eb and I hitched him to the light buggy andtouched him up for a short journey down the road. In five minutes he hadbegun to heave and whistle. I felt sure one could have heard him half amile away. Uncle Eb stopped him and began to laugh.'A whistler,' said he, 'sure's yer born. He ain't wuth a bag o' beans.But don't ye never let on. When ye git licked ye musn't never fin'fault. If anybody asks ye 'bout him tell 'em he's all ye expected.'We stood waiting a moment for the horse to recover himself. A team wasnearing us.'There's Bob Dean,' Uncle Eb whispered. 'The durn scalawag! Don't ye saya word now.'Good-mornin'!' said Dean, smiling as he pulled up beside us.'Nice pleasant mornin'!' said Uncle Eb, as he cast a glance into thesky.'What ye standin' here for?' Dean asked.Uncle Eb expectorated thoughtfully.'Jest a lookin' at the scenery,' said he. 'Purty country, right here!AIwus liked it.''Nice lookin' hoss ye got there,' said Dean.'Grand hoss!' said Uncle Eb, surveying him proudly. 'Most reemarkablehoss.''Good stepper, too,' said Dean soberly.'Splendid!' said Uncle Eb. 'Can go a mile without ketchin' his breath.''Thet so?' said Dean.'Good deal like Lucy Purvis,' Uncle Eb added. 'She can say the hullmul'plication table an' only breathe once. Ye can learn sumthin' from ahoss like thet. He's good as a deestric' school--thet hoss is.'Yes, sir, thet hoss is all right,' said Dean, as he drove away.'Righter'n I expected,' Uncle Eb shouted, and then he covered his mouth,shaking with suppressed laughter.'Skunk!' he said, as we turned the animal and started to walk him home.'Don't min' bein' beat, but I don't like t' hev a man rub it in on me.I'll git even with him mebbe.'And he did. It came about in this way. We turned our new purchase intothe pasture, and Uncle Eb and I drove away to Potsdam for a betternag. We examined all the horses in that part of the country. At last wechanced upon one that looked like the whistler, save that he had a whitestocking on one hind foot.'Same age, too,' said Uncle Eb, as he looked into his mouth.'Can pass anything on the road,' said his owner.'Can he?' said Uncle Eb, who had no taste for slow going. 'Hitch him upan' le's see what he can do.'He carried us faster than we had ever ridden before at a trot, andcoming up behind another team the man pulled out, let the reins loose onhis back, and whistled. If anyone had hit him with a log chain the horsecould not have moved quicker. He took us by the other team like a flash,on the dead run and three in the buggy.'He'll do all right,' said Uncle Eb, and paid for the horse.It was long after dark when we started home, leading him behind, andnear midnight when we arrived.In the morning I found Uncle Eb in the stable showing him to the otherhelp. To my surprise the white stocking had disappeared.'Didn't jes' like that white stockin',' he said, as I came in. 'Wonderedhow he'd look without it.'They all agreed this horse and the whistler were as much alike as twopeas in appearance. Breakfast over Uncle Eb asked the Irishman to hitchhim up.'Come Bill,' said he, 'le's take a ride. Dean'll be comm' 'long bym byeon his way t' town with that trotter o' his'n. 'Druther like to meethim.'I had only a faint idea of his purpose. He let the horse step along attop speed going up the road and when we turned about he was breathingheavily. We jogged him back down the road a mile or so, and when Isaw the blazed face of Dean's mare, in the distance, we pulled up andshortly stopped him. Dean came along in a moment.'Nice mornin'!' said he.'Grand!' said Uncle Eb.'Lookin' at the lan'scape ag'in?''Yes; I've jes' begun t' see what a putty country this is,' said UncleEb.'How's the boss?''Splendid! Gives ye time t' think an' see what yer passin'. Like t' set'n think once in a while. We don't do enough thinkin' here in this parto' the country.''Yd orter buy this mare an learn how t' ride fast,' said Dean.'Thet one,' said Uncle Eb, squinting at the mare, 'why she can't go fast'nough.''She can't, hey?' said Dean, bridling with injured pride. 'I don't thinkthere's anything in this town can head her.''Thunder!' said Uncle Eb, 'I can go by her with this ol' plug easy'twixt here an' our gate. Ye didn't know what ye was sellin'.''If ye pass her once I'll give her to ye,' said he.'Mean it?' said Uncle Eb.'Sartin,' said he, a little redder in the face.'An' if I don't I'll give ye the whistler,' said Uncle Eb as he turnedabout.The mare went away, under the whip, before we had fairly started. Shewas going a fifty shot but in a moment we were lapping upon her hindwheel. Dean threw a startled glance over his shoulder. Then he shoutedto the mare. She quickened her pace a little but we kept our position.Uncle Eb was leaning over the dasher his white locks flying. He hadsomething up his sleeve, as they say, and was not yet ready to use it.Then Dean began to shear over to cut us off--a nasty trick of the lowhorseman. I saw Uncle Eb glance at the ditch ahead. I knew what wascoming and took a firm hold of the seat. The ditch was a bit rough, butUncle Eb had no lack of courage. He turned the horse's head, let up onthe reins and whistled. I have never felt such a thrill as then. Ourhorse leaped into the deep grass running like a wild deer.'Hi there! hi there!' Uncle Eb shouted, bouncing in his seat, as we wentover stones and hummocks going like the wind.'Go, ye brown devil!' he yelled, his hat flying off as he shook thereins.The mare lost her stride; we flashed by and came up into the road.Looking back I saw her jumping up and down a long way behind us and Deanwhipping her. Uncle Eb, his hands over the dasher, had pulled down toa trot Ahead of us we could see our folks--men and women--at the gatelooking down the road at us waving hats and handkerchiefs. They hadheard the noise of the battle. Uncle Eb let up on the reins and lookedback snorting with amusement. In a moment we pulled up at our gate. Deancame along slowly.'Thet's a putty good mare,' said Uncle Eb.'Yer welcome to her,' said Dean sullenly.'Wouldn't hev her,' said Uncle Eb.'Why not?' said the trader a look of relief coming over his face.'Can't go fast enough for my use,' Uncle Eb answered. 'Ye can jest hitchher in here awhile an' the first day ye come over with a hundred dollarsye can hev her 'n the whistler, both on 'em. Thet whistler's a grandhoss! Can hold his breath longer'n any hoss I ever knew!'The sum named was that we had paid him for the highly accomplishedanimal. Dean had the manhood to pay up then and there and said he wouldsend for the other horse, which he never did.'Guess he won't bother us any more when we stop t' look at the scenery,'said Uncle Eb, laughing as Dean drove away. 'Kind o' resky businessbuyin' hosses,' he added. 'Got t' jedge the owner as well as the hoss.If there's anything the matter with his conscience it'll come out inthe hoss somewhere every time. Never knew a mean man t' own a good hoss.Remember, boy, 's a lame soul thet drives a limpin' hoss.''No use talkin'; Bill ain' no jedge uv a hoss' said David Brower. 'He'llhev t' hev an education er he'll git t' the poorhouse someday sartin.''Wall he's a good jedge o' gals anyway,' said Uncle Eb.As for myself I was now hopelessly confirmed in my dislike of farmingand I never traded horses again.Chapter 23Late in August Uncle Eb and I took our Black Hawk stallion to the fairin Hillsborough and showed him for a prize. He was fit for the eye of aking when we had finished grooming him, that morning, and led him out,rearing in play, his eyes flashing from under his broad plume, so thatall might have a last look at him. His arched neck and slim barrelglowed like satin as the sunlight fell upon him. His black mane flew, heshook the ground with his hoofs playing at the halter's end. He hated aharness and once in it lost half his conceit. But he was vainest of allthings in Faraway when we drove off with him that morning.All roads led to Hillsborough fair time. Up and down the long hills wewent on a stiff jog passing lumber wagons with generations enough inthem to make a respectable genealogy, the old people in chairs; lightwagons that carried young men and their sweethearts, backswoodsmencoming out in ancient vehicles upon reeling, creaking wheels to get foodfor a year's reflection--all thickening the haze of the late summer withthe dust of the roads. And Hillsborough itself was black with people.The shouts of excited men, the neighing of horses, the bellowing ofcattle, the wailing of infants, the howling of vendors, the pressingcrowd, had begun to sow the seed of misery in the minds of thoseaccustomed only to the peaceful quietude of the farm. The staring eye,the palpitating heart, the aching head, were successive stages in thedoom of many. The fair had its floral hall carpeted with sawdust andredolent of cedar, its dairy house, its mechanics' hall sacred tofarming implements, its long sheds full of sheep and cattle, itsdining-hall, its temporary booths of rough lumber, its half-mile trackand grandstand. Here voices of beast and vendor mingled in a chorus ofcupidity and distress. In Floral Hall Sol Rollin was on exhibition. Hegave me a cold nod, his lips set for a tune as yet inaudible. He wassurveying sundry examples of rustic art that hung on the circularrailing of the gallery and trying to preserve a calm breast. He waslooking at Susan Baker's painted cow that hung near us.'Very descriptive,' he said when I pressed him for his notion of it.'Rod Baker's sister Susan made thet cow. Gits tew dollars an' fiftycents every fair time--wish I was dewin 's well.''That's one of the most profitable cows in this country,' I said.'Looks a good deal like a new breed.''Yes,' he answered soberly, then he set his lips, threw a sweepingglance into the gallery, and passed on.Susan Baker's cow was one of the permanent features of the county fair,and was indeed a curiosity not less remarkable than the sacred ox of MrBarnum.Here also I met a group of the pretty girls who had been my schoolmates.They surrounded me, chattering like magpies.'There's going to be a dance at our house tonight,' said one of them,'and you must come.''I cannot, I must go home,' I said.'Of course!' said a red-cheeked saucy miss. 'The stuck-up thing! Hewouldn't go anywhere unless he could have his sister with him.'Then they went away laughing.I found Ab Thomas at the rifle range. He was whittling as he considereda challenge from Tip Taylor to shoot a match. He turned and 'hefted'the rifle, silently, and then he squinted over the barrel two or threetimes.'Dunno but what I'll try ye once,' he said presently, 'jes t' see.'Once started they grew red in their faces and shot themselves weary ina reckless contest of skill and endurance. A great hulking fellow, halfdrunk and a bit quarrelsome, came up, presently, and endeavoured to helpAb hold his rifle. The latter brushed him away and said nothing for amoment. But every time he tried to take aim the man jostled him.An looked up slowly and calmly, his eyebrows tilted for his aim, andsaid, 'Go off I tell ye.' Then he set himself and took aim again.'Le'me hold it,' said the man, reaching for the barrel. 'Shoot better ifI do the aimin'.' A laugh greeted this remark. Ab looked up again. Therewas a quick start in his great slouching figure.'Take yer hand off o' thet,' he said a little louder than before.The man, aching for more applause, grew more impertinent. Ab quietlyhanded the rifle to its owner. Then something happened suddenly. It wasso quickly over I am not quite sure of the order of business, but anyhowhe seized the intruder by the shoulders flinging him down so heavily itknocked the dust out of the grass.'A fight!' somebody shouted and men and boys came runing from all sides.We were locked in a pushing crowd before I could turn. The intruder laystunned a moment. Then he rose, bare headed, his back covered with dust,pushed his way out and ran.Ab turned quietly to the range.'Hedn't orter t' come an' try t' dew my aimin',' he said mildly, by wayof protest, 'I won't hev it.'Then he enquired about the score and calmly took aim again. The stallionshow came on that afternoon.'They can't never beat thet hoss,' Uncle Eb had said to me.''Fraid they will,' I answered. 'They're better hitched for one thing.''But they hain't got the ginger in 'em,' said he, 'er the git up 'n git.If we can show what's in him the Hawk'll beat 'em easy.'If we won I was to get the prize but I had small hope of winning. WhenI saw one after another prance out, in sparkling silver harness adornedwith rosettes of ribbon--light stepping, beautiful creatures all ofthem--I could see nothing but defeat for us. Indeed I could see we hadbeen too confident. I dreaded the moment when Uncle Eb should drive downwith Black Hawk in a plain leather harness, drawing a plainer buggy. Ihad planned to spend the prize money taking Hope to the harvest ball atRickard's, and I had worked hard to put the Hawk in good fettle. I beganto feel the bitterness of failure.'Black Hawk! Where is Black Hawk?' said one of the judges loudly.'Owned by David Brower o' Faraway,' said another looking at his card.Where indeed was Uncle Eb? I got up on the fence and looked all aboutme anxiously. Then I heard a great cheering up the track. Somebody wascoming down, at a rapid pace, riding a splendid moving animal, a kneerising to the nose at each powerful stride. His head and flying maneobscured the rider but I could see the end of a rope swinging in hishand. There was something familiar in the easy high stride of the horse.The cheers came on ahead of him like foam before a breaker. Upon myeyes! it was Black Hawk, with nothing but a plain rope halter on hishead, and Uncle Eb riding him.'G'lang there!' he shouted, swinging the halter stale to the shiningflank. 'G'lang there!' and he went by, like a flash, the tail of BlackHawk straight out behind him, its end feathering in the wind. It wasa splendid thing to see--that white-haired man, sitting erect on theflying animal, with only a rope halter in his hand. Every man about mewas yelling. I swung my hat, shouting myself hoarse. When Uncle Eb cameback the Hawk was walking quietly in a crowd of men and boys eager tofeel his silken sides. I crowded through and held the horse's nose whileUncle Eb got down.'Thought I wouldn't put no luther on him,' said Uncle Eb, 'God's gin''im a good 'nuff harness.'The judges came and looked him over.'Guess he'll win the prize all right,' said one of them.And he did. When we came home that evening every horse on the roadthought himself a trotter and went speeding to try his pace witheverything that came up beside him. And many a man of Faraway, that wepassed, sent up a shout of praise for the Black Hawk.But I was thinking of Hope and the dance at Rickard's. I had plenty ofmoney now and my next letter urged her to come home at once.Chapter 24Hope returned for a few days late in August. Invitations were justissued for the harvest dance at Rickard's.'You mus' take 'er,' said Uncle Eb, the day she came. 'She's a purtydancer as a man ever see. Prance right up an' tell 'er she mus' go. Don'want 'O let anyone git ahead O' ye.''Of course I will go,' she said in answer to my invitation, 'I shouldn'tthink you were a beau worth having if you did not ask me.'The yellow moon was peering over Woody Ledge when we went away thatevening. I knew it was our last pleasure seeking in Faraway, and thecrickets in the stubble filled the silence with a kind of mourning.She looked so fine in her big hat and new gown with its many daintyaccessories of lace and ribbon, adjusted with so much patting andpulling, that as she sat beside me, I hardly dared touch her for fear ofspoiling something. When she shivered a little and said it was growingcool I put my arm about her, and, as I drew her closer to my side, sheturned her hat, obligingly, and said it was a great nuisance.I tried to kiss her then, but she put her hand over my mouth and said,sweetly, that I would spoil everything if I did that.'I must not let you kiss me, William,' she said, 'not--not for all inthe world. I'm sure you wouldn't have me do what I think is wrong--wouldyou?'There was but one answer to such an appeal, and I made myself as happyas possible feeling her head upon my shoulder and her soft hair touchingmy cheek. As I think of it now the trust she put in me was somethingsublime and holy.'Then I shall talk about--about our love,' I said, 'I must dosomething.''Promised I wouldn't let you,' she said. Then she added after a momentof silence, 'I'll tell you what you may do--tell me what is your idealin a woman--the one you would love best of all. I don't think that wouldbe wicked--do you?''I think God would forgive that,' I said. 'She must be tall and slim,with dainty feet and hands, and a pair of big eyes, blue as a violet,shaded with long dark lashes. And her hair must be wavy and light with alittle tinge of gold in it. And her cheek must have the pink of the roseand dimples that show in laughter. And her voice--that must have musicin it and the ring of kindness and good-nature. And her lips--let themshow the crimson of her blood and be ready to give and receive a kisswhen I meet her.'She sighed and nestled closer to me.'If I let you kiss me just once,' she whispered, 'you will not ask meagain--will you?''No, sweetheart, I will not,' I answered. Then we gave each other such akiss as may be known once and only once in a lifetime.'What would you do for the love of a girl like that?' she whispered.I thought a moment, sounding depths of undiscovered woe to see if therewere anything I should hesitate to suffer and there was nothing.'I'd lay me doun an' dee,' I said.And I well remember how, when I lay dying, as I believed, in rain anddarkness on the bloody field of Bull Run, I thought of that moment andof those words.'I cannot say such beautiful things as you,' she answered, when I askedher to describe her ideal. 'He must be good and he must be tall andhandsome and strong and brave.'Then she sang a tender love ballad. I have often shared the pleasure ofthousands under the spell of her voice, but I have never heard her singas to that small audience on Faraway turnpike.As we came near Rickard's Hall we could hear the fiddles and the callingoff.The windows on the long sides of the big house were open. Long shafts oflight shot out upon the gloom. It had always reminded me of a pictureof Noah's ark that hung in my bedroom and now it seemed to be floating,with resting oars of gold, in a deluge of darkness. We were greeted witha noisy welcome, at the door. Many of the boys and girls came, from allsides of the big hall, and shook hands with us. Enos Brown, whoselong forelocks had been oiled for the occasion and combed down so theytouched his right eyebrow, was panting in a jig that jarred the house.His trouser legs were caught on the tops of his fine boots. He nodded tome as I came in, snapped his fingers and doubled his energy. It was anexhibition both of power and endurance. He was damp and apologetic when,at length, he stopped with a mighty bang of his foot and sat down besideme. He said he was badly out of practice when I offered congratulations.The first fiddler was a small man, with a short leg, and a characterthat was minus one dimension. It had length and breadth but nothickness. He sat with his fellow player on a little platform at one endof the room. He was an odd man who wandered all over the township withhis fiddle. He played by ear, and I have seen babies smile and old mendance when his bow was swaying. I remember that when I heard it for thefirst time, I determined that I should be a fiddler if I ever grew to bea man. But David told me that fiddlers were a worthless lot, and thatno wise man should ever fool with a fiddle. One is lucky, I have sincelearned, if any dream of yesterday shall stand the better light of todayor the more searching rays of tomorrow.'Choose yer partners fer Money Musk!' the caller shouted.Hope and I got into line, the music started, the circles began to sway.Darwin Powers, an old but frisky man, stood up beside the fiddlers,whistling, with sobriety and vigour, as they played. It was a pleasureto see some of the older men of the neighbourhood join the dizzy riot byskipping playfully in the corners. They tried to rally their unwillingwives, and generally a number of them were dancing before the night wasover. The life and colour of the scene, the fresh, young faces of thegirls some of them models of rustic beauty--the playful antics of theyoung men, the merrymaking of their fathers, the laughter, the airs ofgallantry, the glances of affection--there is a magic in the thought ofit all that makes me young again.There were teams before and behind us when we came home, late at night,so sleepy that the stars went reeling as we looked at them.'This night is the end of many things,' I remarked.'And the beginning of better ones, I hope,' was her answer.'Yes, but they are so far away,' I said, 'you leave home to study and Iam to be four years in college-possibly I can finish in three.''Perfectly terrible!' she said, and then she added the favourite phraseand tone of her mother: 'We must be patient.''I am very sorry of one thing,' I said. 'What's that?''I promised not to ask you for one more kiss.''Well then,' said she, 'you--you--needn't ask me.' And in a moment Ihelped her out at the door.Chapter 25David Brower had prospered, as I have said before, and now he waschiefly concerned in the welfare of his children. So, that he might giveus the advantages of the town, he decided either to lease or sell hisfarm--by far the handsomest property in the township. I was there when abuyer came, in the last days of that summer. We took him over the smoothacres from Lone Pine to Woody Ledge, from the top of Bowman's Hill toTinkie Brook in the far valley. He went with us through every tidy roomof the house. He looked over the stock and the stables.'Wall! what's it wuth?' he said, at last, as we stood looking down thefair green acres sloping to the sugar bush.David picked up a stick, opened his knife, and began to whittlethoughtfully, a familiar squint of reflection in his face. I suppose hethought of all it had cost him--the toil of many years, the strength ofhis young manhood, the youth and beauty of his wife, a hundred thingsthat were far better than money.'Fifteen thousan' dollars,' he said slowly--'not a cent less.' The manparleyed a little over the price.'Don' care t' take any less t'day,' said David calmly. 'No harm done.''How much down?'David named the sum.'An' possession?''Next week''Everything as it stan's?''Everything as it stan's 'cept the beds an' bedding.''Here's some money on account,' he said. 'We'll close t'morrer?''Close t'morrer,' said David, a little sadness in his tone, as he tookthe money.It was growing dusk as the man went away. The crickets sang with a loud,accusing, clamour. Slowly we turned and went into the dark house, Davidwhistling under his breath. Elizabeth was resting in her chair. She washumming an old hymn as she rocked.'Sold the farm, mother,' said David.She stopped singing but made no answer. In the dusk, as we sat down, Isaw her face leaning upon her hand. Over the hills and out of the fieldsaround us came many voices--the low chant in the stubble, the baying ofa hound in the far timber, the cry of the tree toad--a tiny drift of oddthings (like that one sees at sea) on the deep eternal silence of theheavens. There was no sound in the room save the low creaking of therocker in which Elizabeth sat. After all the going, and coming, anddoing, and saying of many years here was a little spell of silence andbeyond lay the untried things of the future. For me it was a time ofreckoning.'Been hard at work here all these years, mother,' said David. 'Oughterbe glad t' git away.''Yes,' said she sadly, 'it's been hard work. Years ago I thought I nevercould stan' it. But now I've got kind o' used t' it.''Time ye got used t' pleasure 'n comfort,' he said. 'Come kind o' hard,at fast, but ye mus' try t' stan' it. If we're goin' t' hev sech flin inHeaven as Deacon Hospur tells on we oughter begin t' practice er we'llbe 'shamed uv ourselves.'The worst was over. Elizabeth began to laugh.At length a strain of song came out of the distance.'Maxwelton's braes are bonnie where early falls the dew.''It's Hope and Uncle Eb,' said David while I went for the lantern.'Wonder what's kep' 'em s' late.'When the lamps were lit the old house seemed suddenly to have got asense of what had been done. The familiar creak of the stairway asI went to bed had an appeal and a protest. The rude chromo of thevoluptuous lady, with red lips and the name of Spring, that had alwayshung in my chamber had a mournful, accusing look. The stain upon hercheek that had come one day from a little leak in the roof looked nowlike the path of a tear drop. And when the wind came up in the night andI heard the creaking of Lone Pine it spoke of the doom of that house andits own that was not far distant.We rented a new home in town, that week, and were soon settled init. Hope went away to resume her studies the same day I began work incollege.Chapter 26Not much in my life at college is essential to this history--save thetraining. The students came mostly from other and remote parts of thenorth country--some even from other states. Coming largely from townsand cities they were shorn of those simple and rugged traits, thatdistinguished the men o' Faraway, and made them worthy of what poorfame this book may afford. In the main they were like other students theworld over, I take it' and mostly, as they have shown, capable of wilingtheir own fame. It all seemed very high and mighty and grand to meespecially the names of the courses. I had my baptism of Sophomoricscorn and many a heated argument over my title to life, liberty and thepursuit of learning. It became necessary to establish it by force ofarms, which I did decisively and with as little delay as possible. Itook much interest in athletic sports and was soon a good ball player, aboxer of some skill, and the best wrestler in college. Things were goingon comfortably when an upper classman met me and suggested that on acoming holiday, the Freshmen ought to wear stove-pipe hats. Those hatswere the seed of great trouble.'Stove-pipe hats!' I said thoughtfully.'They're a good protection,' he assured me.It seemed a very reasonable, not to say a necessary precaution. A manhas to be young and innocent sometime or what would become of the Devil.I did not see that the stove-pipe hat was the red rag of insurrectionand, when I did see it' I was up to my neck in the matter.You see the Sophs are apt to be very nasty that day,' he continued.I acknowledged they were quite capable of it.'And they don't care where they hit,' he went on.I felt of my head that was still sore, from a forceful argument of thepreceding day, and admitted there was good ground for the assertion.When I met my classmen, that afternoon, I was an advocate of the'stove-pipe' as a means of protection. There were a number of huskyfellows, in my class, who saw its resisting power and seconded mysuggestion. We decided to leave it to the ladies of the class and theygreeted our plan with applause. So, that morning, we arrayed ourselvesin high hats, heavy canes and fine linen, marching together up CollegeHill. We had hardly entered the gate before we saw the Sophs formingin a thick rank outside the door prepared, as we took it, to resist ourentrance. They out-numbered us and were, in the main, heavier but wehad a foot or more of good stiff material between each head and harm. Ofjust what befell us, when we got to the enemy, I have never felt sure.Of the total inefficiency of the stove-pipe hat as an article of armour,I have never had the slightest doubt since then. There was a great flashand rattle of canes. Then the air was full of us. In the heat of it allprudence went to the winds. We hit out right and left, on both sides,smashing hats and bruising heads and hands. The canes went down in ajiffy and then we closed with each other hip and thigh. Collars wereripped off, coats were torn, shirts were gory from the blood of noses,and in this condition the most of us were rolling and tumbling on theground. I had flung a man, heavily, and broke away and was tacklinganother when I heard a hush in the tumult and then the voice of thepresident. He stood on the high steps, his grey head bare, his righthand lifted. It must have looked like carnage from where he stood.'Young gentlemen!' he called. 'Cease, I command you. If we cannot getalong without this thing we will shut up shop.'Well, that was the end of it and came near being the end of our careersin college. We looked at each other, torn and panting and bloody, andat the girls, who stood by, pale with alarm. Then we picked up theshapeless hats and went away for repairs. I had heard that the path oflearning was long and beset with peril but I hoped, not without reason,the worst was over. As I went off the campus the top of my hat washanging over my left ear, my collar and cravat were turned awry, mytrousers gaped over one knee. I was talking with a fellow sufferer andpatching the skin on my knuckles, when suddenly I met Uncle Eb.'By the Lord Harry!' he said, looking me over from top to toe, 'teacherup there mus' be purty ha'sh.''It wa'n't the teacher,' I said.'Must have fit then.''Fit hard,' I answered, laughing.'Try t' walk on ye?''Tried t' walk on me. Took several steps too,' I said stooping to brushmy trousers.'Hm! guess he found it ruther bad walkin' didn't he?' my old friendenquired. 'Leetle bit rough in spots?''Little bit rough, Uncle Eb--that's certain.''Better not go hum,' he said, a great relief in his face. 'Look 's ifye'd been chopped down an' sawed--an' split--an' throwed in a pile. I'llgo an' bring over some things fer ye.'I went with my friend, who had suffered less damage, and Uncle Ebbrought me what I needed to look more respectable than I felt.The president, great and good man that he was, forgave us, finally,after many interviews and such wholesome reproof as made us all ashamedof our folly.In my second year, at college, Hope went away to continue her studiesin New York She was to live in the family of John Fuller, a friend ofDavid, who had left Faraway years before and made his fortune there inthe big city. Her going filled my days with a lingering and pervasivesadness. I saw in it sometimes the shadow of a heavier loss than I daredto contemplate. She had come home once a week from Ogdensburg and I hadalways had a letter between times. She was ambitious and, I fancy, theylet her go, so that there should be no danger of any turning aside fromthe plan of my life, or of hers; for they knew our hearts as well as weknew them and possibly better.We had the parlour to ourselves the evening before she went away, and Iread her a little love tale I had written especially for that occasion.It gave us some chance to discuss the absorbing and forbidden topic ofour lives.'He's too much afraid of her,' she said, 'he ought to put his arm abouther waist in that love scene.''Like that,' I said, suiting the action to the word.'About like that,' she answered, laughing, 'and then he ought to saysomething very, very, nice to her before he proposes--something abouthis having loved her for so long--you know.''And how about her?' I asked, my arm still about her waist.'If she really loves him,' Hope answered, 'she would put her arms abouthis neck and lay her head upon his shoulder, so; and then he might saywhat is in the story.' She was smiling now as she looked up at me.'And kiss her?''And kiss her,' she whispered; and, let me add, that part of the scenewas in nowise neglected.'And when he says: "will you wait for me and keep me always in yourheart?" what should be her answer,' I continued.'Always!' she said.'Hope, this is our own story,' I whispered. 'Does it need any furthercorrection?''It's too short--that's all,' she answered, as our lips met again.Just then Uncle Eb opened the door, suddenly.'Tut tut!' he said tuning quickly about'Come in, Uncle Eb,' said Hope, 'come right in, we want to see you.In a moment she had caught him by the arm.'Don' want 'o break up the meetin',' said he laughing.'We don't care if you do know,' said Hope, 'we're not ashamed of it.''Hain't got no cause t' be,' he said. 'Go it while ye're young 'n full'o vinegar! That's what I say every time. It's the best fun there is. Ithought I'd like t' hev ye both come up t' my room, fer a minute, 'foreyer mother 'n father come back,' he said in a low tone that was almost awhisper.Then he shut one eye, suggestively, and beckoned with his head, as wefollowed him up the stairway to the little room in which he slept. Heknelt by the bed and pulled out the old skin-covered trunk that DavidBrower had given him soon after we came. He felt a moment for thekeyhole, his hand trembling, and then I helped him open the trunk.From under that sacred suit of broadcloth, worn only on the grandestoccasions, he fetched a bundle about the size of a man's head. It wastied in a big red handkerchief. We were both sitting on the floor besidehim.'Heft it,' he whispered.I did so and found it heavier than I expected.'What is it?' I asked.'Spondoolix,' he whispered.Then he untied the bundle--a close packed hoard of bankbills with somepieces of gold and silver at the bottom.'Hain't never hed no use fer it,' he said as he drew out a layerof greenbacks and spread them with trembling fingers. Then he begancounting them slowly and carefully.'There!' he whispered, when at length he had counted a hundred dollars.'There Hope! take thet an' put it away in yer wallet. Might come handywhen ye're 'way fr'm hum.'She kissed him tenderly.'Put it 'n yer wallet an' say nothin'--not a word t' nobody,' he said.Then he counted over a like amount for me.'Say nothin',' he said, looking up at me over his spectacles. 'Ye'll hevt' spile a suit o' clothes purty often if them fellers keep a fightin'uv ye all the time.'Father and mother were coming in below stairs and, hearing them, wehelped Uncle Eb tie up his bundle and stow it away. Then we went down tomeet them.Next morning we bade Hope goodbye at the cars and returned to our homewith a sense of loss that, for long, lay heavy upon us all.Chapter 27Uncle Eb and David were away buying cattle, half the week, but ElizabethBrower was always at home to look after my comfort. She was up betimesin the morning and singing at her work long before I was out of bed.When the breakfast was near ready she came to my door with a call sofall of cheerfulness and good-nature it was the best thing in the day.And often, at night, I have known her to come into my room when I waslying awake with some hard problem, to see that I was properly coveredor that my window was not open too far. As we sat alone together, ofan evening, I have seen her listen for hours while I was committing theOdes of Horace with a curiosity that finally gave way to resignation.Sometimes she would look over my shoulder at the printed page and try todiscern some meaning in it. When Uncle Eb was with us he would often sita long time his head turned attentively as the lines came rattling offmy tongue.'Cur'us talk!' he said, one evening, as I paused a moment, while hecrossed the room for a drink of water. 'Don' seem t' make no kind O'sense. I can make out a word here 'n there but fer good, sound, commonsense I call it a purty thin crop.'Hope wrote me every week for a time. A church choir had offered her aplace soon after she went to the big city. She came home intending tosurprise us all, the first summer but unfortunately, I had gone away inthe woods with a party of surveyors and missed her. We were a month inthe wilderness and came out a little west of Albany where I took a boatfor New York to see Hope. I came down the North River between the greatsmoky cities, on either side of it, one damp and chilly morning. Thenoise, the crowds, the immensity of the town appalled me. At JohnFuller's I found that Hope had gone home and while they tried to detainme longer I came back on the night boat of the same day. Hope and Ipassed each other in that journey and I did not see her until the summerpreceding my third and last year in college--the faculty having allowedme to take two years in one. Her letters had come less frequently andwhen she came I saw a grand young lady of fine manners, her beautyshaping to an ampler mould, her form straightening to the dignity ofwomanhood.At the depot our hands were cold and trembling with excitement--neitherof us, I fancy, knowing quite how far to go in our greeting. Ourcorrespondence had been true to the promise made her mother--there hadnot been a word of love in it--only now and then a suggestion of ourtender feeling. We hesitated only for the briefest moment. Then I put myarm about her neck and kissed her.'I am so glad to see you,' she said.Well, she was charming and beautiful, but different, and probablynot more different than was I. She was no longer the laughing,simple-mannered child of Faraway, whose heart was as one's hand beforehim in the daylight. She had now a bit of the woman's reserve--herprudence, her skill in hiding the things of the heart. I loved her morethan ever, but somehow I felt it hopeless--that she had grown out of mylife. She was much in request among the people of Hillsborough, and wewent about a good deal and had many callers. But we had little time toourselves. She seemed to avoid that, and had much to say of the grandyoung men who came to call on her in the great city. Anyhow it all hurtme to the soul and even robbed me of my sleep. A better lover thanI would have made an end of dallying and got at the truth, come whatmight. But I was of the Puritans, and not of the Cavaliers, and my waywas that which God had marked for me, albeit I must own no man had evera keener eye for a lovely woman or more heart to please her. A mightypride had come to me and I had rather have thrown my heart to vulturesthan see it an unwelcome offering. And I was quite out of courage withHope; she, I dare say, was as much out of patience with me.She returned in the late summer and I went back to my work at college ina hopeless fashion that gave way under the whip of a strong will.I made myself as contented as possible. I knew all the pretty girlsand went about with some of them to the entertainments of the collegeseason. At last came the long looked for day of my graduation--the endof my student life.The streets of the town were thronged, every student having the collegecolours in his coat lapel. The little company of graduates trembled withfright as the people crowded in to the church, whispering and faringthemselves, in eager anticipation. As the former looked from the twoside pews where they sat, many familiar faces greeted them--the facesof fathers and mothers aglow with the inner light of pride and pleasure;the faces of many they loved come to claim a share in the glory of thatday. I found my own, I remember, but none of them gave me such help asthat of Uncle Eb. However I might fare, none would feel the pride ordisgrace of it more keenly than he. I shall never forget how he turnedhis head to catch every word when I ascended the platform. As I warmedto my argument I could see him nudging the arm of David, who sat besidehim, as if to say, 'There's the boy that came over the hills with me ina pack basket.' When I stopped a moment, groping for the next word, heleaned forward, embracing his knee, firmly, as if intending to draw offa boot. It was all the assistance he could give me. When the exerciseswere over I found Uncle Eb by the front door of the church, waiting forme.'Willie, ye done noble!' said he.'Did my very best, Uncle Eb,' I replied.'Liked it grand--I did, sartin.' 'Glad you liked it, Uncle Eb.''Showed great larnin'. Eho was the man 'at give out the pictur's?'He meant the president who had conferred the degrees. I spoke the name.'Deceivin' lookin' man, ain't he? Seen him often, but never took nopertick'lar notice of him before.''How deceiving?' I enquired.'Talked so kind of plain,' he replied. 'I could understan' him as easyas though he'd been swappin' hosses. But when you got up, Bill'. Why,you jes' riz right up in the air an' there couldn't no dum fool tellwhat you was talkin' 'bout.'Whereat I concluded that Uncle Eb's humour was as deep as it was kindly,but I have never been quite sure whether the remark was a compliment ora bit of satire.Chapter 28The folks of Faraway have been carefully if rudely pictured, but thelook of my own person, since I grew to the stature of manhood, I haveleft wholly to the imagination of the reader. I will wager he knew longsince what manner of man I was and has measured me to the fraction of aninch, and knows even the colour of my hair and eyes from having been solong in my company. If not--well, I shall have to write him a letter.When Uncle Eb and I took the train for New York that summer day in 1860,some fifteen years after we came down Paradise Road with the dog andwagon and pack basket, my head, which, in that far day, came only tothe latitude of his trouser pocket, had now mounted six inches abovehis own. That is all I can say here on that branch of my subject. Iwas leaving to seek my fortune in the big city; Uncle Eb was off for aholiday and to see Hope and bring her home for a short visit. I rememberwith what sadness I looked back that morning at mother and father asthey stood by the gate slowly waving their handkerchiefs. Our home atlast was emptied of its young, and even as they looked the shadow of oldage must have fallen suddenly before them. I knew how they would go backinto that lonely room and how, while the clock went on with its ticking,Elizabeth would sit down and cover her face a moment, while David wouldmake haste to take up his chores.We sat in silence a long time after the train was off, a mighty sadnessholding our tongues. Uncle Eb, who had never ridden a long journey onthe cars before, had put on his grand suit of broadcloth. The day washot and dusty, and before we had gone far he was sadly soiled. But asuit never gave him any worry, once it was on. He sat calmly, holdinghis knee in his hands and looking out of the open window, a squint inhis eyes that stood for some high degree of interest in the scenery.'What do you think of this country?' I enquired.'Looks purty fair,' said he, as he brushed his face with hishandkerchief and coughed to clear his throat of the dust, 'but 'tain'tquite so pleasant to the taste as some other parts o' the country. Iruther liked the flavour of Saint Lawrence all through, but Jefferson isa leetle gritty.'He put down the window as he spoke.'A leetle tobaccer'll improve it some,' he added, as his hand went downfor the old silver box. 'The way these cars dew rip along! Consarned ifit ain't like flyin'! Kind o' makes me feel like a bird.'The railroad was then not the familiar thing it is now in the northcountry. The bull in the fields had not yet come to an understanding ofits rights, and was frequently tempted into argument with a locomotive.Bill Fountain, who came out of a back township, one day had even tiedhis faithful hound to the rear platform.Our train came to a long stop for wood and water near midday, and thenwe opened the lunch basket that mother had given us.'Neighbour,' said a solemn-faced man, who sat in front of us, 'do youthink the cars are ag'in the Bible? D'you think a Christian orter rideon 'em?''Sartin,' said Uncle Eb. 'Less the constable's after him--then I thinkhe orter be on a balky hoss.''Wife'n I hes talked it over a good deal,' said the man. 'Some says it'sag'in the Bible. The minister 'at preaches over 'n our neighbourhoodsays if God hed wanted men t' fly he'd g'in 'em wings.''S'pose if he'd ever wanted 'm t' skate he'd hed 'em born with skateson?' said Uncle Eb.'Danno,' said the man. 'It behooves us all to be careful. The Bible says"Go not after new things."''My friend,' said Uncle Eb, between bites of a doughnut, 'I don'care what I ride in so long as 'tain't a hearse. I want sumthin' at'scomfortable an' purty middlin' spry. It'll do us good up here t' gitjerked a few hunderd miles an' back ev'ry leetle while. Keep our j'intslimber. We'll live longer fer it, an' thet'll please God sure--cuz Idon't think he's hankerin' fer our society--not a bit. Don' make nodifference t' him whuther we ride 'n a spring wagon er on the cars solong's we're right side up 'n movin'. We need more steam; we're too dumslow. Kind o' think a leetle more steam in our religion wouldn't hurt usa bit. It's purty fur behind.'We got to Albany in the evening, just in time for the night boat. UncleEb was a sight in his dusty broadcloth, when we got off the cars, andI know my appearance could not have been prepossessing. Once we wereaboard the boat and had dusted our clothes and bathed our hands andfaces we were in better spirits.'Consarn it!' said Uncle Eb, as we left the washroom, 'le's have a durngood supper. I'll stan' treat.''Comes a leetle bit high,' he said, as he paid the bill, 'but I don'care if it does. 'Fore we left I says t' myself, "Uncle Eb," saysI, "you go right in fer a good time an' don' ye count the pennies.Everybody's a right t' be reckless once in seventy-five year."'We went to our stateroom a little after nine. I remember the berths hadnot been made up, and removing our boots and coats we lay down uponthe bare mattresses. Even then I had a lurking fear that we might beviolating some rule of steamboat etiquette. When I went to New Yorkbefore I had dozed all night in the big cabin.A dim light came through the shuttered door that opened upon thedinning-saloon where the rattle of dishes for a time put away thepossibility of sleep.'I'll be awful glad t' see Hope,' said Uncle Eb, as he lay gaping.'Guess I'll be happier to see her than she will to see me,' I said.'What put that in yer head?' Uncle Eb enquired.''Fraid we've got pretty far apart,' said I.'Shame on ye, Bill,' said the old gentleman. 'If thet's so ye ain't doneright. Hedn't orter let a girl like thet git away from ye--th' ain'tanother like her in this world.''I know it' I said' 'but I can't help it. Somebody's cut me out UncleEb.'''Tain't so,' said he emphatically. 'Ye want t' prance right up t' her.''I'm not afraid of any woman,' I said, with a great air of bravery, 'butif she don't care for me I ought not to throw myself at her.''Jerusalem!' said Uncle Eb, rising up suddenly, 'what hev I gone an'done?'He jumped out of his berth quickly and in the dim light I could see himreaching for several big sheets of paper adhering to the back of hisshirt and trousers. I went quickly to his assistance and beganstripping off the broadsheets which, covered with some strongly adhesivesubstance, had laid a firm hold upon him. I rang the bell and ordered alight.'Consam it all! what be they--plasters?' said Uncle Eb, quite out ofpatience.'Pieces of brown paper, covered with--West India molasses, I shouldthink,' said I.'West Injy molasses!' he exclaimed. 'By mighty! That makes me hotter'n apancake. What's it on the bed fer?''To catch flies,' I answered.'An' ketched me,' said Uncle Eb, as he flung the sheet he was examininginto a corner. 'My extry good suit' too!'He took off his trousers, then, holding them up to the light.'They're sp'ilt,' said he mournfully. 'Hed 'em fer more'n ten year,too.''That's long enough,' I suggested.'Got kind o' 'tached to 'em,' he said, looking down at them and rubbinghis chin thoughtfully. Then we had a good laugh.'You can put on the other suit,' I suggested, 'and when we get to thecity we'll have these fixed.''Leetle sorry, though,' said he, 'cuz that other suit don' look reelgrand. This here one has been purty--purty scrumptious in its day--if Ido say it.''You look good enough in anything that's respectable,' I said.'Kind o' wanted to look a leetle extry good, as ye might say,' saidUncle Eb, groping in his big carpet-bag. 'Hope, she's terrible proud,an' if they should hev a leetle fiddlin' an' dancin' some night we'dwant t' be as stylish as any on em. B'lieve I'll go'n git me a spang,bran' new suit, anyway, 'fore we go up t' Fuller's.'As we neared the city we both began feeling a bit doubtful as to whetherwe were quite ready for the ordeal.'I ought to,' I said. 'Those I'm wearing aren't quite stylish enough,I'm afraid.''They're han'some,' said Uncle Eb, looking up over his spectacles, 'butmebbe they ain't just as splendid as they'd orter be. How much money didDavid give ye?''One hundred and fifty dollars,' I said, thinking it a very grand sumindeed.''Tain't enough,' said Uncle Eb, bolting up at me again. 'Leastways notif ye're goin' t' hev a new suit. I want ye t' be spick an' span.'He picked up his trousers then, and took out his fat leather wallet.'Lock the door,' he whispered.'Pop goes the weasel!' he exclaimed, good-naturedly, and then he begancounting the bills.'I'm not going to take any more of your money, Uncle Eb,' I said.'Tut, tut!' said he, 'don't ye try t' interfere. What d' ye thinkthey'll charge in the city fer a reel, splendid suit?'He stopped and looked up at me.'Probably as much as fifty dollars,' I answered.'Whew-w-w!' he whistled. 'Patty steep! It is sartin.''Let me go as I am,' said I. 'Time enough to have a new suit when I'veearned it.''Wall,' he said, as he continued counting, 'I guess you've earnt italready. Ye've studied hard an' tuk first honours an' yer goin' wherefolks are purty middlin' proud'n haughty. I want ye t' be a reg'lar highstepper, with a nice, slick coat. There,' he whispered, as he handed methe money, 'take thet! An' don't ye never tell 'at I g'in it t' ye.'I could not speak for a little while, as I took the money, for thinkingof the many, many things this grand old man had done for me.'Do ye think these boots'll do?' he asked, as he held up to the lightthe pair he had taken off in the evening.'They look all right,' I said.'Ain't got no decent squeak to 'em now, an' they seem t' look kind o'clumsy. How're your'n?' he asked.I got them out from under the berth and we inspected them carefullydeciding in the end they would pass muster.The steward had made up our berths, when he came, and lit our room forus. Our feverish discussion of attire had carried us far past midnight,when we decided to go to bed.'S'pose we musn't talk t' no strangers there 'n New York,' said UncleEb, as he lay down. 'I've read 'n the Tribune how they'll purtend t' befriends an' then grab yer money an' run like Sam Hill. If I meet any o'them fellers they're goin' t' find me purty middlin' poor comp'ny.'We were up and on deck at daylight, viewing the Palisades. The lonelyfeeling of an alien hushed us into silence as we came to the noisy andthickening river craft at the upper end of the city. Countless windowpanes were shining in the morning sunlight. This thought was in my mindthat somewhere in the innumerable host on either side was the one dearerto me than any other. We enquired our way at the dock and walked toFrench's Hotel, on Printing House Square. After breakfast we went andordered all the grand new things we had planned to get. They would notbe ready for two days, and after talking it over we decided to go andmake a short call. Hope, who had been up and looking for us a longtime, gave us a greeting so hearty we began to get the first feeling ofcomfort since landing. She was put out about our having had breakfast, Iremember, and said we must have our things brought there at once.'I shall have to stay at the hotel awhile,' I said, thinking of the newclothes.'Why,' said Mrs Fuller, 'this girl has been busy a week fixing yourrooms and planning for you. We could not hear of your going elsewhere.It would be downright ingratitude to her.'A glow of red came into the cheeks of Hope that made me ashamed of myremark. I thought she looked lovelier in her pretty blue morning gown,covering a broad expanse of crinoline, than ever before.'And you've both got to come and hear me sing tonight at the church,'said she. 'I wouldn't have agreed to sing if I had not thought you wereto be here.'We made ourselves at home, as we were most happy to do, and thatafternoon I went down town to present to Mr Greeley the letter thatDavid Brower had given me.Chapter 29I came down Broadway that afternoon aboard a big white omnibus, thatdrifted slowly in a tide of many vehicles. Those days there were agoodly show of trees on either side of that thoroughfare--elms, withhere and there a willow, a sumach or a mountain ash. The walks werethronged with handsome people--dandies with high hats and flauntingneckties and swinging canes--beautiful women, each covering a broadcircumference of the pavement, with a cone of crinoline that swayed overdainty feet. From Grace Church down it was much of the same thing we seenow, with a more ragged sky line. Many of the great buildings, of whiteand red sandstone, had then appeared, but the street was largely in thepossession of small shops--oyster houses, bookstores and the like. Notuntil I neared the sacred temple of the Tribune did I feel a propersense of my own littleness. There was the fountain of all that wisdomwhich had been read aloud and heard with reverence in our householdsince a time I could but dimly remember. There sat the prophet who hadgiven us so much--his genial views of life and government, his hopes,his fears, his mighty wrath at the prospering of cruelty and injustice.'I would like to see Mr Horace Greeley,' I said, rather timidly, at thecounter.'Walk right up those stairs and turn to the left,' said a clerk, as heopened a gate for me.Ascending, I met a big man coming down, hurriedly, and with heavy steps.We stood dodging each other a moment with that unfortunate co-ordinationof purpose men sometimes encounter when passing each other. Suddenly thebig man stopped in the middle of the stairway and held both of his handsabove his head.'In God's name! young man,' said he, 'take your choice.'He spoke in a high, squeaky voice that cut me with the sharpness of itsirritation. I went on past him and entered an open door near the top ofthe stairway.'Is Mr Horace Greeley in?' I enquired of a young man who sat readingpapers.'Back soon,' said he, without looking up. 'Take a chair.'In a little while I heard the same heavy feet ascending the stairway twosteps at a time. Then the man I had met came hurriedly into the room.'This is Mr Greeley,' said the young man who was reading.The great editor turned and looked at me through gold-rimmed spectacles.I gave him my letter out of a trembling hand. He removed it from theenvelope and held it close to his big, kindly, smooth-shaven face. Therewas a fringe of silky, silver hair, streaked with yellow, about thelower part of his head from temple to temple. It also encircled histhroat from under his collar. His cheeks were fall and fair as a lady's,with rosy spots in them and a few freckles about his nose. He laughed ashe finished reading the letter.'Are you Dave Brower's boy?' he asked in a drawling falsetto, looking atme out of grey eyes and smiling with good humour.'By adoption,' I answered.''He was an almighty good rassler,' he said, deliberately, as he lookedagain at the letter.''What do you want to do?' he asked abruptly.''Want to work on the Tribune,' I answered.''Good Lord! he said. 'I can't hire everybody.'I tried to think of some argument, but what with looking at the greatman before me, and answering his questions and maintaining a decent showof dignity, I had enough to do.'Do you read the Tribune? he asked.''Read it ever since I can remember.''What do you think of the administration?'Lot of dough faces! I answered, smiling, as I saw he recognised his ownphrase. He sat a moment tapping the desk with his penholder.''There's so many liars here in New York,' he said, 'there ought to beroom for an honest man. How are the crops?''Fair, I answered. 'Big crop of boys every year.''And now you're trying to find a market, he remarked.''Want to have you try them,' I answered.'Well,' said he, very seriously, turning to his desk that came up to hischin as he sat beside it, 'go and write me an article about rats.''Would you advise-,' I started to say, when he interrupted me.'The man that gives advice is a bigger fool than the man that takes it,'he fleered impatiently. 'Go and do your best!'Before he had given me this injunction he had dipped his pen and begunto write hurriedly. If I had known him longer I should have known that,while he had been talking to me, that tireless mind of his had summonedhim to its service. I went out, in high spirits, and sat down a momenton one of the benches in the little park near by, to think it allover. He was going to measure my judgement, my skill as a writer--myresources. 'Rats,' I said to myself thoughtfully. I had read much aboutthem. They infested the ships, they overran the wharves, they traversedthe sewers. An inspiration came to me. I started for the waterfront,asking my way every block or two. Near the East River I met apoliceman--a big, husky, good-hearted Irishman.'Can you tell me,' I said, 'who can give me information about rats?''Rats?' he repeated. 'What d' ye wan't' know about thim?''Everything,' I said. 'They've just given me a job on the New YorkTribune,' I added proudly.He smiled good-naturedly. He had looked through me at a glance.'Just say "Tribune",' he said. 'Ye don't have t' say "New York Tribune"here. Come along wi' me.'He took me to a dozen or more of the dock masters.'Give 'im a lift, my hearty,' he said to the first of them. 'He's agreen.'I have never forgotten the kindness of that Irishman, whom I came toknow well in good time. Remembering that day and others I always greetedhim with a hearty 'God bless the Irish!' every time I passed him, and hewould answer, 'Amen, an' save yer riverince.'He did not leave me until I was on my way home loaded with fact andfable and good dialect with a savour of the sea in it.Hope and Uncle Eb were sitting together in his room when I returned.'Guess I've got a job,' I said, trying to be very cool about it..'A job! said Hope eagerly, as she rose. 'Where?'With Mr Horace Greeley,' I answered, my voice betraying my excitement.'Jerusalem! said Uncle Eb. 'Is it possible?''That's grand! said Hope. 'Tell us about it.'Then I told them of my interview with the great editor and of what I haddone since.'Ye done wonderful!' said Uncle Eb and Hope showed quite as muchpleasure in her own sweet way.I was for going to my room and beginning to write at once, but Hope saidit was time to be getting ready for dinner.When we came down at half-past six we were presented to our host and theguests of the evening--handsome men and women in full dress--and youngMr Livingstone was among them. I felt rather cheap in my frock coat,although I had thought it grand enough for anybody on the day of mygraduation. Dinner announced, the gentlemen rose and offered escortto the ladies, and Hope and Mrs Fuller relieved our embarrassmentby conducting us to our seats--women are so deft in those littledifficulties. The dinner was not more formal than that of every eveningin the Fuller home--for its master was a rich man of some refinement oftaste--and not at all comparable to the splendid hospitality one maysee every day at the table of a modern millionaire. But it did seem verywonderful to us, then, with its fine-mannered servants, its flowers, itsabundant silver. Hope had written much to her mother of the details ofdeportment at John Fuller's table, and Elizabeth had delicately impartedto us the things we ought to know. We behaved well, I have since beentold, although we got credit for poorer appetites than we possessed.Uncle Eb took no chances and refused everything that had a look ofmystery and a suggestion of peril, dropping a droll remark, betimes,that sent a ripple of amusement around the table.John Trumbull sat opposite me, and even then I felt a curious interestin him--a big, full bearded man, quite six feet tall, his skin and eyesdark, his hair iron-grey, his voice deep like David s. I could not getover the impression that I had seen him before--a feeling I have hadoften, facing men I could never possibly have met. No word came outof his firm mouth unless he were addressed, and then all in hearinglistened to the little he had to say: it was never more than somevery simple remark. In his face and form and voice there was abundantheraldry of rugged power and ox-like vitality. I have seen a bronze headof Daniel Webster which, with a full blonde beard and an ample coveringof grey hair would have given one a fairly perfect idea of the look ofJohn Trumbull. Imagine it on a tall, and powerful body and let it speakwith a voice that has in it the deep and musical vibration one may hearin the looing of an ox and you shall see, as perfectly as my feeblewords can help you to do, this remarkable man who, must, hereafter,play before you his part--compared to which mine is as the prattle of achild--in this drama of God's truth.'You have not heard,' said Mrs Fuller addressing me, 'how Mr Trumbullsaved Hope's life.''Saved Hope's life!' I exclaimed.'Saved her life,' she repeated, 'there isn't a doubt of it. We neversent word of it for fear it would give you all needless worry. It was aday of last winter--fell crossing Broadway, a dangerous place' he pulledher aside just in time--the horse's feet were raised above her--shewould have been crushed in a moment He lifted her in his arms andcarried her to the sidewalk not a bit the worse for it.'Seems as if it were fate,' said Hope. 'I had seen him so often andwondered who he was. I recall a night when I had to come home alone fromrehearsal. I was horribly afraid. I remember passing him under a streetlamp. If he had spoken to me, then, I should have dropped with fear andhe would have had to carry me home that time.'It's an odd thing a girl like you should ever have to walk home alone,'said Mr Fuller. 'Doesn't speak well for our friend Livingstone orBurnham there or Dobbs.'Mrs Fuller doesn't give us half a chance,' said Livingstone, 'sheguards her day and night. It's like the monks and the Holy Grail.'Hope is independent of the young men,' said Mrs Fuller as we rose fromthe table. 'If I cannot go with her myself, in the carriage, I alwayssend a maid or a manservant to walk home with her. But Mr Fuller andI were out of town that night and the young men missed their greatopportunity.'Had a differ'nt way o' sparkin' years ago,' said Uncle Eb. 'Didn'tnever hev it please anybody but the girl then. If ye liked a girl yewent an' sot up with her an' gin her a smack an' tol' her right outplain an' square what ye wanted. An' thet settled it one way er t'other. An' her mother she step' in the next room with the door half-openan' never paid no 'tention. Recollec' one col'night when I was sparkin'the mother hollered out o' bed, "Lucy, hev ye got anythin 'round ye?"an' she hollered back, "Yis, mother," an' she hed too but 'twan'tnothin' but my arm.'They laughed merrily, over the quaint reminiscence of my old friendand the quainter way he had of telling it. The rude dialect of thebackwoodsman might have seemed oddly out of place, there, but for thequiet, unassuming manner and the fine old face of Uncle Eb in which thedullest eye might see the soul of a gentleman.'What became of Lucy?' Mr Fuller enquired, laughingly. 'You nevermarried her.''Lucy died,' he answered soberly; 'thet was long, long ago.'Then he went away with John Trumbull to the smoking-room where I foundthem, talking earnestly in a corner, when it was time to go to thechurch with Hope.Chapter 30Hope and Uncle Eb and I went away in a coach with Mrs Fuller. Therewas a great crowd in the church that covered, with sweeping arches, aninterior more vast than any I had ever entered. Hope was gowned inwhite silk, a crescent of diamonds in her hair--a birthday gift fromMrs Fuller; her neck and a part of her full breast unadorned by anythingsave the gifts of God--their snowy whiteness, their lovely curves.First Henry Cooper came on with his violin--a great master as I nowremember him. Then Hope ascended to the platform, her dainty kidslippers showing under her gown, and the odious Livingstone escortingher. I was never so madly in love or so insanely jealous. I must confessit for I am trying to tell the whole truth of myself--I was a fool. Andit is the greater folly that one says ever 'I was,' and never 'I am' inthat plea. I could even see it myself then and there, but I was so greata fool I smiled and spoke fairly to the young man although I could havewrung his neck with rage. There was a little stir and a passing whisperin the crowd as she stood waiting for the prelude. Then she sang theballad of Auld Robin Grey--not better than I had heard her sing itbefore, but so charmingly there were murmurs of delight going far andwide in the audience when she had finished. Then she sang the finemelody of 'Angels ever Bright and Fair', and again the old ballad sheand I had heard first from the violin of poor Nick Goodall.  By yon bonnie bank an' by yon bonnie bonnie brae  The sun shines bright on Loch Lomond  Where me an' me true love were ever won't if gae  On the bonnie, bonnie bank o' Loch Lomond.Great baskets of roses were handed to her as she came down from theplatform and my confusion was multiplied by their number for I had notthought to bring any myself.I turned to Uncle Eb who, now and then, had furtively wiped his eyes.'My stars!' he whispered, 'ain't it reemarkable grand! Never heard nerseen nothin' like thet in all my born days. An' t' think it's my littleHope.'He could go no further. His handkerchief was in his hand while he tookrefuge in silence.Going home the flowers were heaped upon our laps and I, with Hope besideme, felt some restoration of comfort.'Did you see Trumbull?' Mrs Fuller asked. 'He sat back of us and didseem to enjoy it so much--your singing. He was almost cheerful.'Tell me about Mr Trumbull,' I said. 'He is interesting.'Speculator,' said Mrs Fuller. 'A strange man, successful, silent,unmarried and, I think, in love. Has beautiful rooms they say onGramercy Park. Lives alone with an old servant. We got to know himthrough the accident. Mr Fuller and he have done business together--agreat deal of it since then. Operates in the stock market.A supper was waiting for us at home and we sat a long time at the table.I was burning for a talk with Hope but how was I to manage it? We rosewith the others and went and sat down together in a corner of the greatparlour. We talked of that night at the White Church in Faraway when weheard Nick Goodall play and she had felt the beginning of a new life.'I've heard how well you did last year,' she said, 'and how nice youwere to the girls. A friend wrote me all about it. How attentive youwere to that little Miss Brown!'But decently polite,' I answered. 'One has to have somebody or--or be amonk.'One has to have somebody!' she said, quickly, as she picked at theflower on her bosom and looked down at it soberly. 'That is true onehas to have somebody and, you know, I haven't had any lack of companymyself. By the way, I have news to tell you.She spoke slowly and in a low voice with a touch of sadness in it. Ifelt the colour mounting to my face.'News!' I repeated. 'What news, I-lope?'I am going away to England,' she said, 'with Mrs Fuller if--if motherwill let me. I wish you would write and ask her to let me go.I was unhorsed. What to say I knew not, what it meant I could vaguelyimagine. There was a moment of awkward silence.'Of course I will ask her if you wish to go,' I said. 'When do you sail?'They haven't fixed the day yet.She sat looking down at her fan, a beautiful, filmy thing between bracesof ivory. Her knees were crossed, one dainty foot showing under rufflesof lace. I looked at her a moment dumb with admiration.'What a big man you have grown to be Will,' she said presently. 'I amalmost afraid of you now.She was still looking down at the fan and that little foot was movingnervously. Now was my time. I began framing an avowal. I felt a wildimpulse to throw my strong arms about her and draw her close to me andfeel the pink velvet of her fair face upon mine. If I had only done it!But what with the strangeness and grandeur of that big room, the voicesof the others who were sitting in the library, near by, the mystery ofthe spreading crinoline that was pressing upon my knees, I had not halfthe courage of a lover.'My friend writes me that you are in love,' she said, opening her fanand moving it slowly, as she looked up at me.'She is right I must confess it,' I said, 'I am madly, hopelessly inlove. It is time you knew it Hope and I want your counsel.She rose quickly and turned her face away.'Do not tell me--do not speak of it again--I forbid you,' she answeredcoldly.Then she stood silent. I rose to take her hand and ask her to tell mewhy, a pretty rankling in my heart, Soft footsteps and the swish of agown were approaching. Before I could speak Mrs Fuller had come throughthe doorway.'Come Hope,' she said, 'I cannot let you sit up late--you are worn out,my dear.Then Hope bade us both good-night and went away to her room. If I hadknown as much about women then, as now, I should have had it out, withshort delay, to some understanding between us. But in that subj