t charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Peterkin Papers, by Lucretia P. HaleThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: The Peterkin PapersAuthor: Lucretia P. HaleRelease Date: October, 2001  [Etext #3028]Posting Date: October 27, 2009Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ISO-8859-1*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PETERKIN PAPERS ***Produced by David ReedTHE PETERKIN PAPERSBy Lucretia P. HaleMrs. Peterkin Puts Salt into Her Coffee.DedicatedTo Meggie (The Daughter of The Lady From Philadelphia)To Whom These Stories Were First ToldPreface to The Second Edition of The Peterkin PapersTHE first of these stories was accepted by Mr. Howard M. Ticknor forthe "Young Folks." They were afterwards continued in numbers of the "St.Nicholas."A second edition is now printed, containing a new paper, which has neverbefore been published, "The Peterkins at the Farm."It may be remembered that the Peterkins originally hesitated aboutpublishing their Family Papers, and were decided by referring the matterto the lady from Philadelphia. A little uncertain of whether she mighthappen to be at Philadelphia, they determined to write and ask her.Solomon John suggested a postal-card. Everybody reads a postal, andeverybody would read it as it came along, and see its importance, andhelp it on. If the lady from Philadelphia were away, her family and allher servants would read it, and send it after her, for answer.Elizabeth Eliza thought the postal a bright idea. It would not take solong to write as a letter, and would not be so expensive. But could theyget the whole subject on a postal?Mr. Peterkin believed there could be no difficulty, there was but onequestion:--Shall the adventures of the Peterkin family be published?This was decided upon, and there was room for each of the family tosign, the little boys contenting themselves with rough sketches of theirindia-rubber boots.Mr. Peterkin, Agamemnon, and Solomon John took the postal-card to thepost-office early one morning, and by the afternoon of that very day,and all the next day, and for many days, came streaming in answers onpostals and on letters. Their card had been addressed to the lady fromPhiladelphia, with the number of her street. But it must have been readby their neighbors in their own town post-office before leaving; it musthave been read along its way: for by each mail came piles of postals andletters from town after town, in answer to the question, and all in thesame tone: "Yes, yes; publish the adventures of the Peterkin family.""Publish them, of course."And in time came the answer of the lady from Philadelphia:--"Yes, ofcourse; publish them."This is why they were published.THE LADY WHO PUT SALT IN HER COFFEE.THIS was Mrs. Peterkin. It was a mistake. She had poured out a deliciouscup of coffee, and, just as she was helping herself to cream, she foundshe had put in salt instead of sugar! It tasted bad. What should she do?Of course she couldn't drink the coffee; so she called in the family,for she was sitting at a late breakfast all alone. The family came in;they all tasted, and looked, and wondered what should be done, and allsat down to think.At last Agamemnon, who had been to college, said, "Why don't we go overand ask the advice of the chemist?" (For the chemist lived over theway, and was a very wise man.) Mrs. Peterkin said, "Yes," and Mr.Peterkin said, "Very well," and all the children said they would go too.So the little boys put on their india-rubber boots, and over they went.Now the chemist was just trying to find out something which should turneverything it touched into gold; and he had a large glass bottle intowhich he put all kinds of gold and silver, and many other valuablethings, and melted them all up over the fire, till he had almost foundwhat he wanted. He could turn things into almost gold. But just now hehad used up all the gold that he had round the house, and gold washigh. He had used up his wife's gold thimble and his great-grandfather'sgold-bowed spectacles; and he had melted up the gold head of hisgreat-great-grandfather's cane; and, just as the Peterkin family camein, he was down on his knees before his wife, asking her to let him haveher wedding-ring to melt up with an the rest, because this time he knewhe should succeed, and should be able to turn everything into gold; andthen she could have a new wedding-ring of diamonds, all set in emeraldsand rubies and topazes, and all the furniture could be turned into thefinest of gold.Now his wife was just consenting when the Peterkin family burst in.You can imagine how mad the chemist was! He came near throwing hiscrucible--that was the name of his melting-pot--at their heads. But hedidn't. He listened as calmly as he could to the story of how Mrs.Peterkin had put salt in her coffee.At first he said he couldn't do anything about it; but when Agamemnonsaid they would pay in gold if he would only go, he packed up hisbottles in a leather case, and went back with them all.First he looked at the coffee, and then stirred it. Then he put in alittle chlorate of potassium, and the family tried it all round; but ittasted no better. Then he stirred in a little bichlorate of magnesia.But Mrs. Peterkin didn't like that. Then he added some tartaric acidand some hypersulphate of lime. But no; it was no better. "I have it!"exclaimed the chemist,--"a little ammonia is just the thing!" No, itwasn't the thing at all.Then he tried, each in turn, some oxalic, cyanic, acetic, phosphoric,chloric, hyperchloric, sulphuric, boracic, silicic, nitric, formic,nitrous nitric, and carbonic acids. Mrs. Peterkin tasted each, and saidthe flavor was pleasant, but not precisely that of coffee. So then hetried a little calcium, aluminum, barium, and strontium, a little clearbitumen, and a half of a third of a sixteenth of a grain of arsenic.This gave rather a pretty color; but still Mrs.Peterkin ungratefully said it tasted of anything but coffee. The chemistwas not discouraged. He put in a little belladonna and atropine, somegranulated hydrogen, some potash, and a very little antimony, finishingoff with a little pure carbon. But still Mrs. Peterkin was notsatisfied.The chemist said that all he had done ought to have taken out thesalt. The theory remained the same, although the experiment had failed.Perhaps a little starch would have some effect. If not, that was allthe time he could give. He should like to be paid, and go. They were allmuch obliged to him, and willing to give him $1.37 1/2 in gold. Goldwas now 2.69 3/4, so Mr. Peterkin found in the newspaper. This gaveAgamemnon a pretty little sum. He sat himself down to do it. But therewas the coffee! All sat and thought awhile, till Elizabeth Eliza said,"Why don't we go to the herb-woman?" Elizabeth Eliza was the onlydaughter. She was named after her two aunts,--Elizabeth, from the sisterof her father; Eliza, from her mother's sister. Now, the herb-woman wasan old woman who came round to sell herbs, and knew a great deal. Theyall shouted with joy at the idea of asking her, and Solomon John andthe younger children agreed to go and find her too. The herb-womanlived down at the very end of the street; so the boys put on theirindia-rubber boots again, and they set off. It was a long walk throughthe village, but they came at last to the herb-woman's house, at thefoot of a high hill. They went through her little garden. Here she hadmarigolds and hollyhocks, and old maids and tall sunflowers, and allkinds of sweet-smelling herbs, so that the air was full of tansy-teaand elder-blow. Over the porch grew a hop-vine, and a brandy-cherrytree shaded the door, and a luxuriant cranberry-vine flung its deliciousfruit across the window. They went into a small parlor, which smelt veryspicy. All around hung little bags full of catnip, and peppermint, andall kinds of herbs; and dried stalks hung from the ceiling; and on theshelves were jars of rhubarb, senna, manna, and the like.But there was no little old woman. She had gone up into the woods toget some more wild herbs, so they all thought they would followher,--Elizabeth Eliza, Solomon John, and the little boys. They had toclimb up over high rocks, and in among huckleberry-bushes and blackberry-vines. But the little boys had their india-rubber boots. At lastthey discovered the little old woman. They knew her by her hat. It wassteeple-crowned, without any vane. They saw her digging with her trowelround a sassafras bush. They told her their story,---how their mother hadput salt in her coffee, and how the chemist had made it worse insteadof better, and how their mother couldn't drink it, and wouldn't shecome and see what she could do? And she said she would, and took up herlittle old apron, with pockets all round, all filled with everlastingand pennyroyal, and went back to her house.There she stopped, and stuffed her huge pockets with some of all thekinds of herbs. She took some tansy and peppermint, and caraway-seedand dill, spearmint and cloves, pennyroyal and sweet marjoram, basil androsemary, wild thyme and some of the other time,---such as you have inclocks,--sappermint and oppermint, catnip, valerian, and hop; indeed,there isn't a kind of herb you can think of that the little old womandidn't have done up in her little paper bags, that had all been dried inher little Dutch-oven. She packed these all up, and then went back withthe children, taking her stick.Meanwhile Mrs. Peterkin was getting quite impatient for her coffee.As soon as the little old woman came she had it set over the fire, andbegan to stir in the different herbs. First she put in a little hop forthe bitter. Mrs.Peterkin said it tasted like hop-tea, and not at all like coffee. Thenshe tried a little flagroot and snakeroot, then some spruce gum, andsome caraway and some dill, some rue and rosemary, some sweet marjoramand sour, some oppermint and sappermint, a little spearmint andpeppermint, some wild thyme, and some of the other tame time, sometansy and basil, and catnip and valerian, and sassafras, ginger, andpennyroyal. The children tasted after each mixture, but made up dreadfulfaces. Mrs. Peterkin tasted, and did the same. The more the old womanstirred, and the more she put in, the worse it all seemed to taste.So the old woman shook her head, and muttered a few words, and saidshe must go. She believed the coffee was bewitched. She bundled up herpackets of herbs, and took her trowel, and her basket, and her stick,and went back to her root of sassafras, that she had left half in theair and half out. And all she would take for pay was five cents incurrency.Then the family were in despair, and all sat and thought a great while.It was growing late in the day, and Mrs. Peterkin hadn't had her cupof coffee. At last Elizabeth Eliza said, "They say that the lady fromPhiladelphia, who is staying in town, is very wise. Suppose I go and askher what is best to be done." To this they all agreed, it was a greatthought, and off Elizabeth Eliza went.She told the lady from Philadelphia the whole story,--how her mother hadput salt in the coffee; how the chemist had been called in; how he triedeverything but could make it no better; and how they went for the littleold herb-woman, and how she had tried in vain, for her mother couldn'tdrink the coffee. The lady from Philadelphia listened very attentively,and then said, "Why doesn't your mother make a fresh cup of coffee?"Elizabeth Eliza started with surprise.Solomon John shouted with joy; so did Agamemnon, who had just finishedhis sum; so did the little boys, who had followed on. "Why didn't wethink of that?" said Elizabeth Eliza; and they all went back to theirmother, and she had her cup of coffee.ABOUT ELIZABETH ELIZA'S PIANO.ELIZABETH ELIZA had a present of a piano, and she was to take lessons ofthe postmaster's daughter.They decided to have the piano set across the window in the parlor, andthe carters brought it in, and went away.After they had gone the family all came in to look at the piano; butthey found the carters had placed it with its back turned towards themiddle of the room, standing close against the window.How could Elizabeth Eliza open it? How could she reach the keys to playupon it?Solomon John proposed that they should open the window, which Agamemnoncould do with his long arms. Then Elizabeth Eliza should go round uponthe piazza, and open the piano. Then she could have her music-stool onthe piazza, and play upon the piano there.So they tried this; and they all thought it was a very pretty sight tosee Elizabeth Eliza playing on the piano, while she sat on the piazza,with the honeysuckle vines behind her.It was very pleasant, too, moonlight evenings. Mr. Peterkin liked totake a doze on his sofa in the room; but the rest of the family liked tosit on the piazza.So did Elizabeth Eliza, only she had to have her back to the moon.All this did very well through the summer; but, when the fall came,Mr. Peterkin thought the air was too cold from the open window, and thefamily did not want to sit out on the piazza.Elizabeth Eliza practiced in the mornings with her cloak on; but she wasobliged to give up her music in the evenings the family shivered so.One day, when she was talking with the lady from Philadelphia, she spokeof this trouble.The lady from Philadelphia looked surprised, and then said, "But whydon't you turn the piano round?"One of the little boys pertly said, "It is a square piano."But Elizabeth Eliza went home directly, and, with the help of Agamemnonand Solomon John, turned the piano round."Why did we not think of that before?" said Mrs. Peterkin. "What shallwe do when the lady from Philadelphia goes home again?"THE PETERKINS TRY TO BECOME WISE.THEY were sitting round the breakfast-table, and wondering what theyshould do because the lady from Philadelphia had gone away. "If," saidMrs. Peterkin, "we could only be more wise as a family!" How could theymanage it? Agamemnon had been to college, and the children all went toschool; but still as a family they were not wise. "It comes from books,"said one of the family. "People who have a great many books are verywise." Then they counted up that there were very few books in thehouse,--a few school-books and Mrs. Peterkin's cook-book were all."That's the thing!" said Agamemnon. "We want a library.""We want a library!" said Solomon John. And all of them exclaimed, "Wewant a library!""Let us think how we shall get one," said Mrs. Peterkin. "I haveobserved that other people think a great deal of thinking."So they all sat and thought a great while.Then said Agamemnon, "I will make a library. There are some boards inthe wood-shed, and I have a hammer and some nails, and perhaps we canborrow some hinges, and there we have our library!"They were all very much pleased at the idea."That's the book-case part," said Elizabeth Eliza; "but where are thebooks?"So they sat and thought a little while, when Solomon John exclaimed, "Iwill make a book!"They all looked at him in wonder."Yes," said Solomon John, "books will make us wise, but first I mustmake a book."So they went into the parlor, and sat down to make a book. But there wasno ink.What should he do for ink? Elizabeth Eliza said she had heard thatnutgalls and vinegar made very good ink. So they decided to make some.The little boys said they could find some nutgalls up in the woods.So they all agreed to set out and pick some. Mrs. Peterkins put on hercape-bonnet, and the little boys got into their india-rubber boots, andoff they went.The nutgalls were hard to find. There was almost everything else in thewoods,--chestnuts, and walnuts, and small hazel-nuts, and a great manysquirrels; and they had to walk a great way before they found anynutgalls. At last they came home with a large basket and two nutgallsin it. Then came the question of the vinegar. Mrs. Peterkin had used hervery last on some beets they had the day before. "Suppose we go andask the minister's wife," said Elizabeth Eliza. So they all went tothe minister's wife. She said if they wanted some good vinegar they hadbetter set a barrel of cider down in the cellar, and in a year or twoit would make very nice vinegar. But they said they wanted it that veryafternoon. When the minister's wife heard this, she said she should bevery glad to let them have some vinegar, and gave them a cupful to carryhome.So they stirred in the nutgalls, and by the time evening came they hadvery good ink.Then Solomon John wanted a pen. Agamemnon had a steel one, but SolomonJohn said, "Poets always used quills." Elizabeth Eliza suggested thatthey should go out to the poultry-yard and get a quill. But it wasalready dark. They had, however, two lanterns, and the littleboys borrowed the neighbors'. They set out in procession for thepoultry-yard. When they got there, the fowls were all at roost, so theycould look at them quietly.SOLOMON JOHN'S BOOK.But there were no geese! There were Shanghais and Cochin-Chinas, andGuinea hens, and Barbary hens, and speckled hens, and Poland roosters,and bantams, and ducks, and turkeys, but not one goose! "No geese butourselves," said Mrs. Peterkin, wittily, as they returned to the house.The sight of this procession roused up the village. "A torchlightprocession!" cried all the boys of the town; and they gathered round thehouse, shouting for the flag; and Mr. Peterkin had to invite them in,and give them cider and gingerbread, before he could explain to themthat it was only his family visiting his hens.After the crowd had dispersed, Solomon John sat down to think of hiswriting again. Agamemnon agreed to go over to the bookstore to get aquill. They all went over with him. The bookseller was just shutting uphis shop. However, he agreed to go in and get a quill, which he did, andthey hurried home.So Solomon John sat down again, but there was no paper. And now thebookstore was shut up. Mr. Peterkin suggested that the mail was aboutin, and perhaps he should have a letter, and then they could use theenvelope to write upon. So they all went to the post-office, and thelittle boys had their india-rubber boots on, and they all shouted whenthey found Mr. Peterkin had a letter. The postmaster inquired whatthey were shouting about; and when they told him, he said he would giveSolomon John a whole sheet of paper for his book. And they all went backrejoicing.So Solomon John sat down, and the family all sat round the table lookingat him. He had his pen, his ink, and his paper. He dipped his pen intothe ink and held it over the paper, and thought a minute, and then said,"But I haven't got anything to say."MRS. PETERKIN WISHES TO GO TO DRIVE.ONE morning Mrs. Peterkin was feeling very tired, as she had beenhaving a great many things to think of, and she said to Mr. Peterkin, "Ibelieve I shall take a ride this morning!"And the little boys cried out, "Oh, may we go too?"Mrs. Peterkin said that Elizabeth Eliza and the little boys might go.So Mr. Peterkin had the horse put into the carryall, and he andAgamemnon went off to their business, and Solomon John to school; andMrs. Peterkin began to get ready for her ride.She had some currants she wanted to carry to old Mrs. Twomly, and somegooseberries for somebody else, and Elizabeth Eliza wanted to pick someflowers to take to the minister's wife, so it took them a long time toprepare.The little boys went out to pick the currants and the gooseberries, andElizabeth Eliza went out for her flowers, and Mrs. Peterkin put on hercape-bonnet, and in time they were all ready. The little boys were intheir india-rubber boots, and they got into the carriage.Elizabeth Eliza was to drive; so she sat on the front seat, and took upthe reins, and the horse started off merrily, and then suddenly stopped,and would not go any farther.Elizabeth Eliza shook the reins, and pulled them, and then she cluckedto the horse; and Mrs. Peterkin clucked; and the little boys whistledand shouted; but still the horse would not go."We shall have to whip him," said Elizabeth Eliza.Now Mrs. Peterkin never liked to use the whip; but, as the horse wouldnot go, she said she would get out and turn her head the other way,while Elizabeth Eliza whipped the horse, and when he began to go shewould hurry and get in.So they tried this, but the horse would not stir."Perhaps we have too heavy a load," said Mrs. Peterkin, as she got in.So they took out the currants and the gooseberries and the flowers, butstill the horse would not go.One of the neighbors, from the opposite house, looking out just then,called out to them to try the whip. There was a high wind, and theycould not hear exactly what she said."I have tried the whip," said Elizabeth Eliza."She says 'whips,' such as you eat," said one of the little boys."We might make those," said Mrs. Peterkin, thoughtfully."We have got plenty of cream," said Elizabeth Eliza."Yes, let us have some whips," cried the little boys, getting out.And the opposite neighbor cried out something about whips; and the windwas very high.So they went into the kitchen, and whipped up the cream, and made somevery delicious whips; and the little boys tasted all round, and they allthought they were very nice.They carried some out to the horse, who swallowed it down very quickly."That is just what he wanted," said Mrs. Peterkin; "now he willcertainly go!"So they all got into the carriage again, and put in the currants and thegooseberries and the flowers; and Elizabeth Eliza shook the reins, andthey all clucked; but still the horse would not go!"We must either give up our ride," said Mrs. Peterkin, mournfully, "orelse send over to the lady from Philadelphia, and see what she willsay."The little boys jumped out as quickly as they could; they were eager togo and ask the lady from Philadelphia. Elizabeth Eliza went with them,while her mother took the reins.They found that the lady from Philadelphia was very ill that day, andwas in her bed. But when she was told what the trouble was, she verykindly said they might draw up the curtain from the window at the footof the bed, and open the blinds, and she would see. Then she asked forher opera-glass, and looked through it, across the way, up the street,to Mrs. Peterkin's door.After she had looked through the glass, she laid it down, leaned herhead back against the pillow, for she was very tired, and then said,"Why don't you unchain the horse from the horse-post?"Elizabeth Eliza and the little boys looked at one another, and thenhurried back to the house and told their mother. The horse was untied,and they all went to ride.THE PETERKINS AT HOME. AT DINNER.ANOTHER little incident occurred in the Peterkin family. This was atdinner-time.They sat down to a dish of boiled ham. Now it was a peculiarity of thechildren of the family, that half of them liked fat, and half likedlean. Mr. Peterkin sat down to cut the ham. But the ham turned out tobe a very remarkable one. The fat and the lean came in separateslices,--first one of lean, than one of fat, then two slices of lean,and so on. Mr. Peterkin began as usual by helping the children first,according to their age. Now Agamemnon, who liked lean, got a fat slice;and Elizabeth Eliza, who preferred fat, had a lean slice. Solomon John,who could eat nothing but lean, was helped to fat, and so on. Nobody hadwhat he could eat.It was a rule of the Peterkin family, that no one should eat any of thevegetables without some of the meat; so now, although the children sawupon their plates apple-sauce and squash and tomato and sweet potato andsour potato, not one of them could eat a mouthful, because not one wassatisfied with the meat. Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin, however, liked both fatand lean, and were making a very good meal, when they looked up and sawthe children all sitting eating nothing, and looking dissatisfied intotheir plates."What is the matter now?" said Mr. Peterkin.But the children were taught not to speak at table. Agamemnon, however,made a sign of disgust at his fat, and Elizabeth Eliza at her lean, andso on, and they presently discovered what was the difficulty."What shall be done now?" said Mrs. Peterkin.They all sat and thought for a little while.At last said Mrs. Peterkin, rather uncertainly, "Suppose we ask the ladyfrom Philadelphia what is best to be done."But Mr. Peterkin said he didn't like to go to her for everything; letthe children try and eat their dinner as it was.And they all tried, but they couldn't. "Very well, then." said Mr.Peterkin, "let them go and ask the lady from Philadelphia.""All of us?" cried one of the little boys, in the excitement of themoment."Yes," said Mrs. Peterkin, "only put on your india-rubber boots."And they hurried out of the house.The lady from Philadelphia was just going in to her dinner; but shekindly stopped in the entry to hear what the trouble was. Agamemnonand Elizabeth Eliza told her all the difficulty, and the lady fromPhiladelphia said, "But why don't you give the slices of fat to thosewho like the fat, and the slices of lean to those who like the lean?"They looked at one another. Agamemnon looked at Elizabeth Eliza, andSolomon John looked at the little boys. "Why didn't we think of that?"said they, and ran home to tell their mother.WHY THE PETERKINS HAD A LATE DINNER.THE trouble was in the dumb-waiter. All had seated themselves at thedinner-table, and Amanda had gone to take out the dinner she had sent upfrom the kitchen on the dumb-waiter. But something was the matter; shecould not pull it up. There was the dinner, but she could not reachit. All the family, in turn, went and tried; all pulled together, invain; the dinner could not be stirred."No dinner!" exclaimed Agamemnon."I am quite hungry," said Solomon John.At last Mr. Peterkin said, "I am not proud. I am willing to dine in thekitchen."This room was below the dining-room. All consented to this. Each onewent down, taking a napkin.The cook laid the kitchen table, put on it her best table-cloth, and thefamily sat down. Amanda went to the dumb-waiter for the dinner, but shecould not move it down.The family were all in dismay. There was the dinner, half-way betweenthe kitchen and dining-room, and there were they all hungry to eat it!"What is there for dinner?" asked Mr. Peterkin."Roast turkey," said Mrs. Peterkin.Mr. Peterkin lifted his eyes to the ceiling."Squash, tomato, potato, and sweet potato," Mrs. Peterkin continued."Sweet potato!" exclaimed both the little boys."I am very glad now that I did not have cranberry," said Mrs. Peterkin,anxious to find a bright point."Let us sit down and think about it," said Mr. Peterkin."I have an idea," said Agamemnon, after a while."Let us hear it," said Mr. Peterkin. "Let each one speak his mind.""The turkey," said Agamemnon, "must be just above the kitchen door. If Ihad a ladder and an axe, I could cut away the plastering and reach it.""That is a great idea," said Mrs. Peterkin."If you think you could do it," said Mr. Peterkin."Would it not be better to have a carpenter?" asked Elizabeth Eliza."A carpenter might have a ladder and an axe, and I think we haveneither," said Mrs. Peterkin."A carpenter! A carpenter!" exclaimed the rest.It was decided that Mr. Peterkin, Solomon John, and the little boysshould go in search of a carpenter.Agamemnon proposed that, meanwhile, he should go and borrow a book; forhe had another idea."This affair of the turkey," he said, "reminds me of those buried citiesthat have been dug out,--Herculaneum, for instance.""Oh, yes," interrupted Elizabeth Eliza, "and Pompeii.""Yes," said Agamemnon, "they found there pots and kettles. Now,I should like to know how they did it; and I mean to borrow a book andread. I think it was done with a pickaxe."So the party set out. But when Mr. Peterkin reached the carpenter'sshop, there was no carpenter to be found there."He must be at his house, eating his dinner," suggested Solomon John."Happy man," exclaimed Mr. Peterkin, "he has a dinner to eat!"They went to the carpenter's house, but found he had gone out of townfor a day's job. But his wife told them that he always came back atnight to ring the nine-o'clock bell."We must wait till then," said Mr. Peterkin, with an effort atcheerfulness.At home he found Agamemnon reading his book, and all sat down to hear ofHerculaneum and Pompeii.Time passed on, and the question arose about tea. Would it do to havetea when they had had no dinner? A part of the family thought it wouldnot do; the rest wanted tea."I suppose you remember the wise lady of Philadelphia, who was here notlong ago," said Mr. Peterkin."Oh, yes," said Mrs. Peterkin."Let us try to think what she would advise us," said Mr. Peterkin."I wish she were here," said Elizabeth Eliza."I think," said Mr. Peterkin, "she would say, let them that want teahave it; the rest can go without."So they had tea, and, as it proved, all sat down to it. But not much waseaten, as there had been no dinner.When the nine-o'clock bell was heard, Agamemnon, Solomon John, and thelittle boys rushed to the church, and found the carpenter.They asked him to bring a ladder, axes and pickaxe. As he felt it mightbe a case of fire, he brought also his fire-buckets.When the matter was explained to him, he went into the dining-room,looked into the dumb-waiter, untwisted a cord, and arranged the weight,and pulled up the dinner.There was a family shout."The trouble was in the weight," said the carpenter."That is why it is called a dumb-waiter," Solomon John explained to thelittle boys.The dinner was put upon the table.Mrs. Peterkin frugally suggested that they might now keep it for thenext day, as to-day was almost gone, and they had had tea.But nobody listened. All sat down to the roast turkey; and Amanda warmedover the vegetables."Patient waiters are no losers," said Agamemnon.THE PETERKINS' SUMMER JOURNEY.IN fact, it was their last summer's journey--for it had been plannedthen; but there had been so many difficulties, it had been delayed.The first trouble had been about trunks. The family did not own a trunksuitable for travelling.Agamemnon had his valise, that he had used when he stayed a week at atime at the academy; and a trunk had been bought for Elizabeth Elizawhen she went to the seminary. Solomon John and Mr. Peterkin, eachhad his patent-leather hand-bag. But all these were too small for thefamily. And the little boys wanted to carry their kite.Mrs. Peterkin suggested her grandmother's trunk. This was a hair-trunk,very large and capacious. It would hold everything they would want tocarry, except what would go in Elizabeth Eliza's trunk, or the valiseand bags.Everybody was delighted at this idea. It was agreed that the next daythe things should be brought into Mrs. Peterkin's room, for her to seeif they could all be packed."If we can get along," said Elizabeth Eliza, "without having to askadvice, I shall be glad!""Yes," said Mr. Peterkin, "It is time now for people to be coming to askadvice of us."The next morning Mrs. Peterkin began by taking out the things that werealready in the trunk. Here were last year's winter things, and notonly these, but old clothes that had been put away,--Mrs. Peterkin'swedding-dress; the skirts the little boys used to wear before they puton jackets and trousers.All day Mrs. Peterkin worked over the trunk, putting away the oldthings, putting in the new. She packed up all the clothes she couldthink of, both summer and winter ones, because you never can tell whatsort of weather you will have.Agamemnon fetched his books, and Solomon John his spy-glass. There wereher own and Elizabeth Eliza's best bonnets in a bandbox; also SolomonJohn's hats, for he had an old one and a new one. He bought a new hatfor fishing, with a very wide brim and deep crown; all of heavy straw.Agamemnon brought down a large heavy dictionary, and an atlas stilllarger. This contained maps of all the countries in the world."I have never had a chance to look at them," he said; "but when onetravels, then is the time to study geography."Mr. Peterkin wanted to take his turning-lathe. So Mrs. Peterkin packedhis tool-chest. It gave her some trouble, for it came to her just asshe had packed her summer dresses. At first she thought it would help tosmooth the dresses, and placed it on top; but she was forced to take allout, and set it at the bottom. This was not so much matter, as she hadnot yet the right dresses to put in. Both Mrs. Peterkin and ElizabethEliza would need new dresses for this occasion. The little boys' hoopswent in; so did their india-rubber boots, in case it should not rainwhen they started. They each had a hoe and shovel, and some baskets,that were packed.Mrs. Peterkin called in all the family on the evening of the second dayto see how she had succeeded. Everything was packed, even the littleboys' kite lay smoothly on the top."I like to see a thing so nicely done," said Mr. Peterkin.The next thing was to cord up the trunk, and Mr. Peterkin tried to moveit. But neither he, nor Agamemnon, nor Solomon John could lift it alone,or all together.Here was a serious difficulty. Solomon John tried to make light of it."Expressmen could lift it. Expressmen were used to such things.""But we did not plan expressing it," said Mrs. Peterkin, in adiscouraged tone."We can take a carriage," said Solomon John."I am afraid the trunk would not go on the back of a carriage,"said Mrs.Peterkin."The hackman could not lift it, either," said Mr. Peterkin."People do travel with a great deal of baggage," said Elizabeth Eliza."And with very large trunks," said Agamemnon."Still they are trunks that can be moved," said Mr. Peterkin, givinganother try at the trunk in vain. "I am afraid we must give it up," hesaid; "it would be such a trouble in going from place to place.""We would not mind if we got it to the place," said Elizabeth Eliza."But how to get it there?" Mr. Peterkin asked, with a sigh."This is our first obstacle," said Agamemnon; "we must do our best toconquer it.""What is an obstacle?" asked the little boys."It is the trunk," said Solomon John."Suppose we look out the word in the dictionary," said Agamemnon,taking the large volume from the trunk. "Ah, here it is--" And he read:--"OBSTACLE, an impediment.""That is a worse word than the other," said one of the little boys."But listen to this," and Agamemnon continued: "Impediment is somethingthat entangles the feet; obstacle, something that stands in the way;obstruction, something that blocks up the passage; hinderance, somethingthat holds back.""The trunk is all these," said Mr. Peterkin, gloomily."It does not entangle the feet," said Solomon John, "for it can't move.""I wish it could," said the little boys together.Mrs. Peterkin spent a day or two in taking the things out of the trunkand putting them away."At least," she said, "this has given me some experience in packing."And the little boys felt as if they had quite been a journey.But the family did not like to give up their plan. It was suggested thatthey might take the things out of the trunk, and pack it at the station;the little boys could go and come with the things. But Elizabeth Elizathought the place too public.Gradually the old contents of the great trunk went back again to it.At length a friend unexpectedly offered to lend Mr. Peterkin agood-sized family trunk. But it was late in the season, and so thejourney was put off from that summer.But now the trunk was sent round to the house, and a family consultationwas held about packing it. Many things would have to be left at home, itwas so much smaller than the grandmother's hair-trunk. But Agamemnon hadbeen studying the atlas through the winter, and felt familiar with themore important places, so it would not be necessary to take it. And Mr.Peterkin decided to leave his turning-lathe at home, and his tool-chest.Again Mrs. Peterkin spent two days in accommodating the things. Withgreat care and discretion, and by borrowing two more leather bags, itcould be accomplished. Everything of importance could be packed, exceptthe little boys' kite. What should they do about that?The little boys proposed carrying it in their hands; but Solomon Johnand Elizabeth Eliza would not consent to this."I do think it is one of the cases where we might ask the advice of thelady from Philadelphia," said Mrs. Peterkin, at last."She has come on here," said Agamemnon, "and we have not been to see herthis summer.""She may think we have been neglecting her," suggested Mr. Peterkin.The little boys begged to be allowed to go and ask her opinion about thekite.They came back in high spirits."She says we might leave this one at home, and make a new kite when weget there," they cried."What a sensible idea!" exclaimed Mr. Peterkin; "and I may have leisureto help you.""We'll take plenty of newspapers," said Solomon John."And twine," said the little boys. And this matter was settled.The question then was, "When should they go?"THE PETERKINS SNOWED-UP.MRS. PETERKIN awoke one morning to find a heavy snow-storm raging. Thewind had flung the snow against the windows, had heaped it up around thehouse, and thrown it into huge white drifts over the fields, coveringhedges and fences.Mrs. Peterkin went from one window to the other to look out; but nothingcould be seen but the driving storm and the deep white snow. Even Mr.Bromwick's house, on the opposite side of the street, was hidden by theswift-falling flakes."What shall I do about it?" thought Mrs. Peterkin. "No roadscleared out! Of course there'll be no butcher and no milkman!"The first thing to be done was to wake up all the family early; forthere was enough in the house for breakfast, and there was no knowingwhen they would have anything more to eat.It was best to secure the breakfast first.So she went from one room to the other, as soon as it was light, wakingthe family, and before long all were dressed and downstairs.And then all went round the house to see what had happened.All the water-pipes that there were were frozen. The milk was frozen.They could open the door into the wood-house; but the wood-house doorinto the yard was banked up with snow; and the front door, and thepiazza door, and the side door stuck. Nobody could get in or out!Meanwhile, Amanda, the cook, had succeeded in making the kitchen fire,but had discovered there was no furnace coal."The furnace coal was to have come to-day," said Mrs. Peterkin,apologetically."Nothing will come to-day," said Mr. Peterkin, shivering.But a fire could be made in a stove in the dining-room.All were glad to sit down to breakfast and hot coffee. The little boyswere much pleased to have "ice-cream" for breakfast."When we get a little warm," said Mr. Peterkin, "we will consider whatis to be done.""I am thankful I ordered the sausages yesterday," said Mrs. Peterkin. "Iwas to have had a leg of mutton to-day.""Nothing will come to-day," said Agamemnon, gloomily."Are these sausages the last meat in the house?" asked Mr. Peterkin."Yes," said Mrs. Peterkin.The potatoes also were gone, the barrel of apples empty, and she hadmeant to order more flour that very day."Then we are eating our last provisions," said Solomon John, helpinghimself to another sausage."I almost wish we had stayed in bed," said Agamemnon."I thought it best to make sure of our breakfast first," repeated Mrs.Peterkin."Shall we literally have nothing left to eat?" asked Mr. Peterkin."There's the pig!" suggested Solomon John.Yes, happily, the pigsty was at the end of the wood-house, and could bereached under cover.But some of the family could not eat fresh pork."We should have to 'corn' part of him," said Agamemnon."My butcher has always told me," said Mrs. Peterkin, "that if I wanted aham I must keep a pig. Now we have the pig, but have not the ham!""Perhaps we could 'corn' one or two of his legs," suggested one of thelittle boys."We need not settle that now," said Mr. Peterkin. "At least the pigwill keep us from starving."The little boys looked serious; they were fond of their pig."If we had only decided to keep a cow," said Mrs. Peterkin."Alas! yes," said Mr. Peterkin, "one learns a great many things toolate!""Then we might have had ice-cream all the time!" exclaimed the littleboys.Indeed, the little boys, in spite of the prospect of starving, werequite pleasantly excited at the idea of being snowed-up, and hurriedthrough their breakfasts that they might go and try to shovel out a pathfrom one of the doors."I ought to know more about the water-pipes," said Mr. Peterkin. "Now, Ishut off the water last night in the bath-room, or else I forgot to; andI ought to have shut it off in the cellar."The little boys came back. Such a wind at the front door, they weregoing to try the side door."Another thing I have learned to-day," said Mr. Peterkin, "is not tohave all the doors on one side of the house, because the storm blows thesnow against all the doors."Solomon John started up."Let us see if we are blocked up on the east side of the house!" heexclaimed."Of what use," asked Mr. Peterkin, "since we have no door on the eastside?""We could cut one," said Solomon John."Yes, we could cut a door," exclaimed Agamemnon."But how can we tell whether there is any snow there?" asked ElizabethEliza,--"for there is no window."In fact, the east side of the Peterkins' house formed a blank wall. Theowner had originally planned a little block of semi-detached houses. Hehad completed only one, very semi and very detached."It is not necessary to see," said Agamemnon, profoundly; "of course,if the storm blows against this side of the house, the house itself mustkeep the snow from the other side.""Yes," said Solomon John, "there must be a space clear of snowon the east side of the house, and if we could open a way to that "--"Wecould open a way to the butcher," said Mr. Peterkin, promptly.Agamemnon went for his pick-axe. He had kept one in the house ever sincethe adventure of the dumb-waiter."What part of the wall had we better attack?" asked Mr. Peterkin.Mrs. Peterkin was alarmed."What will Mr. Mudge, the owner of the house, think of it?" sheexclaimed. "Have we a right to injure the wall of the house?""It is right to preserve ourselves from starving," said Mr. Peterkin."The drowning man must snatch at a straw!""It is better that he should find his house chopped a little when thethaw comes," said Elizabeth Eliza, "than that he should find us lyingabout the house, dead of hunger, upon the floor."Mrs. Peterkin was partially convinced.The little boys came in to warm their hands. They had not succeeded inopening the side door, and were planning trying to open the door fromthe wood-house to the garden."That would be of no use," said Mrs. Peterkin, "the butcher cannot getinto the garden.""But we might shovel off the snow," suggested one of the littleboys, "and dig down to some of last year's onions."Meanwhile, Mr. Peterkin, Agamemnon, and Solomon John had been bringingtogether their carpenter's tools, and Elizabeth Eliza proposed using agouge, if they would choose the right spot to begin.The little boys were delighted with the plan, and hastened to find,--one,a little hatchet, and the other a gimlet. Even Amanda armed herself witha poker."It would be better to begin on the ground floor," said Mr.Peterkin."Except that we may meet with a stone foundation," said Solomon John."If the wall is thinner upstairs," said Agamemnon, "it will do as wellto cut a window as a door, and haul up anything the butcher may bringbelow in his cart."Everybody began to pound a little on the wall to find a favorableplace, and there was a great deal of noise. The little boys actually cuta bit out of the plastering with their hatchet and gimlet. Solomon Johnconfided to Elizabeth Eliza that it reminded him of stories of prisonerswho cut themselves free, through stone walls, after days and days ofsecret labor.Mrs. Peterkin, even, had come with a pair of tongs in her hand. She wasinterrupted by a voice behind her."Here's your leg of mutton, marm!"It was the butcher. How had he got in?"Excuse me, marm, for coming in at the side door, but the back gateis kinder blocked up. You were making such a pounding I could not makeanybody hear me knock at the side door.""But how did you make a path to the door?" asked Mr. Peterkin. "You musthave been working at it a long time. It must be near noon now.""I'm about on regular time," answered the butcher. "The townteam has cleared out the high road, and the wind has been down the lasthalf-hour. The storm is over."True enough! The Peterkins had been so busy inside the house they hadnot noticed the ceasing of the storm outside."And we were all up an hour earlier than usual," said Mr. Peterkin,when the butcher left. He had not explained to the butcher why he had apickaxe in his hand."If we had lain abed till the usual time," said Solomon John, "we shouldhave been all right.""For here is the milkman!" said Elizabeth Eliza, as a knock was nowheard at the side door."It is a good thing to learn," said Mr. Peterkin, "not to get up anyearlier than is necessary."THE PETERKINS DECIDE TO KEEP A COW.NOT that they were fond of drinking milk, nor that they drank very much.But for that reason Mr. Peterkin thought it would be well to have acow, to encourage the family to drink more, as he felt it would be sohealthy.Mrs. Peterkin recalled the troubles of the last cold winter, andhow near they came to starving, when they were shut up in a severesnow-storm, and the water-pipes burst, and the milk was frozen. Ifthe cow-shed could open out of the wood-shed, such trouble might beprevented.Tony Larkin was to come over and milk the cow every morning, andAgamemnon and Solomon John agreed to learn how to milk, in case Tonyshould be "snowed up," or have the whooping-cough in the course of thewinter. The little boys thought they knew how already.But if they were to have three or four pailfuls of milk every day, itwas important to know where to keep it."One way will be," said Mrs. Peterkin, "to use a great deal every day.We will make butter.""That will be admirable," thought Mr. Peterkin."And custards," suggested Solomon John."And syllabub," said Elizabeth Eliza."And cocoa-nut cakes," exclaimed the little boys."We don't need the milk for cocoa-nut cakes," said Mrs. Peterkin.The little boys thought they might have a cocoa-nut tree instead ofa cow. You could have the milk from the cocoa-nuts, and it would bepleasant climbing the tree, and you would not have to feed it."Yes," said Mr. Peterkin, "we shall have to feed the cow.""Where shall we pasture her?" asked Agamemnon."Up on the hills, up on the hills," exclaimed the little boys, "wherethere are a great many bars to take down, and huckleberry-bushes!"Mr. Peterkin had been thinking of their own little lot behind the house."But I don't know," he said, "but the cow might eat off all the grass inone day, and there would not be any left for to-morrow, unless the grassgrew fast enough every night."Agamemnon said it would depend upon the season. In a rainy season thegrass would come up very fast, in a drought it might not grow at all."I suppose," said Mrs. Peterkin, "that is the worst of having acow,--there might be a drought."Mr. Peterkin thought they might make some calculation from the quantityof grass in the lot.Solomon John suggested that measurements might be made by seeing howmuch grass the Bromwicks' cow, opposite them, eat up in a day.The little boys agreed to go over and spend the day on the Bromwicks'fence, and take an observation."The trouble would be," said Elizabeth Eliza, "that cows walk about so,and the Bromwicks' yard is very large. Now she would be eating in oneplace, and then she would walk to another. She would not be eating allthe time, a part of the time she would be chewing."The little boys thought they should like nothing better than to havesome sticks, and keep the cow in one corner of the yard till thecalculations were made.But Elizabeth Eliza was afraid the Bromwicks would not like it."Of course, it would bring all the boys in the school about the place,and very likely they would make the cow angry."Agamemnon recalled that Mr. Bromwick once wanted to hire Mr. Peterkin'slot for his cow.Mr. Peterkin started up."That is true; and of course Mr. Bromwick must have known there was feedenough for one cow.""And the reason you didn't let him have it," said Solomon John, "wasthat Elizabeth Eliza was afraid of cows.""I did not like the idea," said Elizabeth Eliza, "of their cow'slooking at me over the top of the fence, perhaps, when I should beplanting the sweet peas in the garden. I hope our cow would be a quietone. I should not like her jumping over the fence into the flower-beds."Mr. Peterkin declared that he should buy a cow of the quietest kind."I should think something might be done about covering her horns," saidMrs.Peterkin; "that seems the most dangerous part. Perhaps they might bepadded with cotton."Elizabeth Eliza said cows were built so large and clumsy, that if theycame at you they could not help knocking you over.The little boys would prefer having the pasture a great way off. Halfthe fun of having a cow would be going up on the hills after her.Agamemnon thought the feed was not so good on the hills."The cow would like it ever so much better," the little boysdeclared, "on account of the variety. If she did not like the rocks andthe bushes, she could walk round and find the grassy places.""I am not sure," said Elizabeth Eliza, "but it would be less dangerousto keep the cow in the lot behind the house, because she would not becoming and going, morning and night, in that jerky way the Larkins' cowscome home. They don't mind which gate they rush in at. I should hate tohave our cow dash into our front yard just as I was coming home of anafternoon.""That is true," said Mr. Peterkin; "we can have the door of thecow-house open directly into the pasture, and save the coming andgoing."The little boys were quite disappointed. The cow would miss theexercise, and they would lose a great pleasure.Solomon John suggested that they might sit on the fence and watch thecow.It was decided to keep the cow in their own pasture; and as they were toput on an end kitchen, it would be perfectly easy to build a dairy.The cow proved a quiet one. She was a little excited when all the familystood round at the first milking, and watched her slowly walking intothe shed.Elizabeth Eliza had her scarlet sack dyed brown a fortnight before. Itwas the one she did her gardening in, and it might have infuriated thecow. And she kept out of the garden the first day or two.Mrs. Peterkin and Elizabeth Eliza bought the best kind of milk-pans, ofevery size.But there was a little disappointment about the taste of the milk.The little boys liked it, and drank large mugs of it. Elizabeth Elizasaid she could never learn to love milk warm from the cow, though shewould like to do her best to patronize the cow.Mrs. Peterkin was afraid Amanda did not under stand about taking careof the milk; yet she had been down to overlook her, and she was sure thepans and the closet were all clean."Suppose we send a pitcher of cream over to the lady from Philadelphiato try," said Elizabeth Eliza; "it will be a pretty attention before shegoes.""It might be awkward if she didn't like it," said Solomon John. "Perhapssomething is the matter with the grass.""I gave the cow an apple to eat yesterday," said one of the little boys,remorsefully.Elizabeth Eliza went over, and Mrs. Peterkin too, and explained all tothe lady from Philadelphia, asking her to taste the milk.The lady from Philadelphia tasted, and said the truth was that the milkwas sour!"I was afraid it was so," said Mrs. Peterkin; "but I didn't know what toexpect from these new kinds of cows."The lady from Philadelphia asked where the milk was kept."In the new dairy," answered Elizabeth Eliza."Is that in a cool place?" asked the lady from Philadelphia.Elizabeth Eliza explained it was close by the new kitchen."Is it near the chimney?" inquired the lady from Philadelphia."It is directly back of the chimney and the new kitchen-range," repliedElizabeth Eliza. "I suppose it is too hot!""Well, well!" said Mrs. Peterkin, "that is it! Last winter the milkfroze, and now we have gone to the other extreme! Where shall we put ourdairy?"THE PETERKINS' CHRISTMAS-TREE.EARLY in the autumn the Peterkins began to prepare for theirChristmas-tree.Everything was done in great privacy, as it was to be a surprise to theneighbors, as well as to the rest of the family. Mr. Peterkin had beenup to Mr.Bromwick's wood-lot, and, with his consent, selected the tree. Agamemnonwent to look at it occasionally after dark, and Solomon John madefrequent visits to it mornings, just after sunrise. Mr. Peterkin droveElizabeth Eliza and her mother that way, and pointed furtively to itwith his whip; but none of them ever spoke of it aloud to each other.It was suspected that the little boys had been to see it Wednesdayand Saturday afternoons. But they came home with their pockets full ofchestnuts, and said nothing about it.At length Mr. Peterkin had it cut down and brought secretly into theLarkin's barn. A week or two before Christmas a measurement was made ofit with Elizabeth Eliza's yard-measure. To Mr. Peterkin's great dismayit was discovered that it was too high to stand in the back parlor.This fact was brought out at a secret council of Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin,Elizabeth Eliza, and Agamemnon.Agamemnon suggested that it might be set up slanting; but Mrs. Peterkinwas very sure it would make her dizzy, and the candles would drip.But a brilliant idea came to Mr. Peterkin. He proposed that the ceilingof the parlor should be raised to make room for the top of the tree.Elizabeth Eliza thought the space would need to be quite large. It mustnot be like a small box, or you could not see the tree."Yes," said Mr. Peterkin, "I should have the ceiling lifted all acrossthe room; the effect would be finer."Elizabeth Eliza objected to having the whole ceiling raised, becauseher room was over the back parlor, and she would have no floor while thealteration was going on, which would be very awkward. Besides, her roomwas not very high now, and, if the floor were raised, perhaps she couldnot walk in it upright.Mr. Peterkin explained that he didn't propose altering the wholeceiling, but to life up a ridge across the room at the back part wherethe tree was to stand.This would make a hump, to be sure, in Elizabeth Eliza's room; but itwould go across the whole room.Elizabeth Eliza said she would not mind that. It would be like the cuddything that comes up on the deck of a ship, that you sit against, onlyhere you would not have the sea-sickness. She thought she should likeit, for a rarity. She might use it for a divan.Mrs. Peterkin thought it would come in the worn place of the carpet, andmight be a convenience in making the carpet over.Agamemnon was afraid there would be trouble in keeping the mattersecret, for it would be a long piece of work for a carpenter; but Mr.Peterkin proposed having the carpenter for a day or two, for a number ofother jobs.One of them was to make all the chairs in the house of the same height,for Mrs. Peterkin had nearly broken her spine by sitting down in a chairthat she had supposed was her own rocking-chair, and it had proved tobe two inches lower. The little boys were now large enough to sit inany chair; so a medium was fixed upon to satisfy all the family, and thechairs were made uniformly of the same height.On consulting the carpenter, however, he insisted that the tree could becut off at the lower end to suit the height of the parlor, and demurredat so great a change as altering the ceiling. But Mr. Peterkin had sethis mind upon the improvement, and Elizabeth Eliza had cut her carpet inpreparation for it.So the folding-doors into the back parlor were closed, and for nearly afortnight before Christmas there was great litter of fallen plastering,and laths, and chips, and shavings; and Elizabeth Eliza's carpet wastaken up, and the furniture had to be changed, and one night she hadto sleep at the Bromwicks', for there was a long hole in her floor thatmight be dangerous.All this delighted the little boys. They could not understand what wasgoing on.Perhaps they suspected a Christmas-tree, but they did not know why aChristmas-tree should have so many chips, and were still more astonishedat the hump that appeared in Elizabeth Eliza's room. It must be aChristmas present, or else the tree in a box.Some aunts and uncles, too, arrived a day or two before Christmas, withsome small cousins. These cousins occupied the attention of the littleboys, and there was a great deal of whispering and mystery, behinddoors, and under the stairs, and in the corners of the entry.Solomon John was busy, privately making some candles for the tree. Hehad been collecting some bayberries, as he understood they made verynice candles, so that it would not be necessary to buy any.The elders of the family never all went into the back parlor together,and all tried not to see what was going on. Mrs. Peterkin would go inwith Solomon John, or Mr. Peterkin with Elizabeth Eliza, or ElizabethEliza and Agamemnon and Solomon John. The little boys and the smallcousins were never allowed even to look inside the room.Elizabeth Eliza meanwhile went into town a number of times. She wantedto consult Amanda as to how much ice-cream they should need, and whetherthey could make it at home, as they had cream and ice. She was prettybusy in her own room; the furniture had to be changed, and the carpetaltered. The "hump" was higher than she expected. There was dangerof bumping her own head whenever she crossed it. She had to nail somepadding on the ceiling for fear of accidents.The afternoon before Christmas, Elizabeth Eliza, Solomon John, and theirfather collected in the back parlor for a council. The carpenters haddone their work, and the tree stood at its full height at the back ofthe room, the top stretching up into the space arranged for it. All thechips and shavings were cleared away, and it stood on a neat box.But what were they to put upon the tree?Solomon John had brought in his supply of candles; but they proved to bevery "stringy" and very few of them. It was strange how many bayberriesit took to make a few candles! The little boys had helped him, andhe had gathered as much as a bushel of bayberries. He had put them inwater, and skimmed off the wax, according to the directions; but therewas so little wax!Solomon John had given the little boys some of the bits sawed off fromthe legs of the chairs. He had suggested that they should cover themwith gilt paper, to answer for gilt apples, without telling them whatthey were for.These apples, a little blunt at the end, and the candles were all theyhad for the tree!After all her trips into town Elizabeth Eliza had forgotten to bringanything for it."I thought of candies and sugar-plums," she said; "but I concluded if wemade caramels ourselves we should not need them. But, then, we have notmade caramels. The fact is, that day my head was full of my carpet. Ihad bumped it pretty badly, too."Mr. Peterkin wished he had taken, instead of a fir-tree, an apple-treehe had seen in October, full of red fruit."But the leaves would have fallen off by this time," said ElizabethEliza."And the apples, too," said Solomon John."It is odd I should have forgotten, that day I went in on purpose to getthe things," said Elizabeth Eliza, musingly. "But I went from shopto shop, and didn't know exactly what to get. I saw a great many giltthings for Christmas-trees; but I knew the little boys were makingthe gilt apples; there were plenty of candles in the shops, but I knewSolomon John was making the candles."Mr. Peterkin thought it was quite natural.Solomon John wondered if it were too late for them to go into town now.Elizabeth Eliza could not go in the next morning, for there was to bea grand Christmas dinner, and Mr. Peterkin could not be spared, andSolomon John was sure he and Agamemnon would not know what to buy.Besides, they would want to try the candles to-night.Mr. Peterkin asked if the presents everybody had been preparing wouldnot answer. But Elizabeth Eliza knew they would be too heavy.A gloom came over the room. There was only a flickering gleam from oneof Solomon John's candles that he had lighted by way of trial.Solomon John again proposed going into town. He lighted a match toexamine the newspaper about the trains. There were plenty of trainscoming out at that hour, but none going in except a very late one. Thatwould not leave time to do anything and come back."We could go in, Elizabeth Eliza and I," said Solomon John, "but weshould not have time to buy anything."Agamemnon was summoned in. Mrs. Peterkin was entertaining the uncles andaunts in the front parlor. Agamemnon wished there was time to studyup something about electric lights. If they could only have a calciumlight! Solomon John's candle sputtered and went out.At this moment there was a loud knocking at the front door. Thelittle boys, and the small cousins, and the uncles and aunts, and Mrs.Peterkin, hastened to see what was the matter.The uncles and aunts thought somebody's house must be on fire. The doorwas opened, and there was a man, white with flakes, for it was beginningto snow, and he was pulling in a large box.Mrs. Peterkin supposed it contained some of Elizabeth Eliza's purchases,so she ordered it to be pushed into the back parlor, and hastily calledback her guests and the little boys into the other room. The little boysand the small cousins were sure they had seen Santa Claus himself.Mr. Peterkin lighted the gas. The box was addressed to Elizabeth Eliza.It was from the lady from Philadelphia! She had gathered a hint fromElizabeth Eliza's letters that there was to be a Christmas-tree, and hadfilled this box with all that would be needed.It was opened directly. There was every kind of gilt hanging-thing, fromgilt pea-pods to butterflies on springs. There were shining flags andlanterns, and birdcages, and nests with birds sitting on them, basketsof fruit, gilt apples and bunches of grapes, and, at the bottom of thewhole, a large box of candles and a box of Philadelphia bonbons!Elizabeth Eliza and Solomon John could scarcely keep from screaming. Thelittle boys and the small cousins knocked on the folding-doors to askwhat was the matter.Hastily Mr. Peterkin and the rest took out the things and hung them onthe tree, and put on the candles.When all was done, it looked so well that Mr. Peterkin exclaimed:--"Letus light the candles now, and send to invite all the neighbors to-night,and have the tree on Christmas Eve!"And so it was that the Peterkins had their Christmas-tree the daybefore, and on Christmas night could go and visit their neighbors.MRS. PETERKIN'S TEA-PARTY.TWAS important to have a tea-party, as they had all been invited byeverybody,--the Bromwicks, the Tremletts, and the Gibbonses. It would besuch a good chance to pay off some of their old debts, now that the ladyfrom Philadelphia was back again, and her two daughters, who would besure to make it all go off well.But as soon as they began to make out the list, they saw there were toomany to have at once, for there were but twelve cups and saucers in thebest set."There are seven of us, to begin with," said Mr. Peterkin."We need not all drink tea," said Mrs. Peterkin."I never do," said Solomon John. The little boys never did."And we could have coffee, too," suggested Elizabeth Eliza."That would take as many cups," objected Agamemnon."We could use the every-day set for the coffee," answered ElizabethEliza; "they are the right shape. Besides," she went on, "they would notall come. Mr. and Mrs. Bromwick, for instance; they never go out.""There are but six cups in the every-day set," said Mrs. Peterkin.The little boys said there were plenty of saucers; and Mr. Peterkinagreed with Elizabeth Eliza that all would not come. Old Mr. Jeffersnever went out."There are three of the Tremletts," said Elizabeth Eliza; "they nevergo out together. One of them, if not two, will be sure to have theheadache. Ann Maria Bromwick would come, and the three Gibbons boys, andtheir sister Juliana; but the other sisters are out West, and there isbut one Osborne."It really did seem safe to ask "everybody." They would be sorry, afterit was over, that they had not asked more."We have the cow," said Mrs. Peterkin, "so there will be as much creamand milk as we shall need.""And our own pig," said Agamemnon. "I am glad we had it salted; so wecan have plenty of sandwiches.""I will buy a chest of tea," exclaimed Mr. Peterkin. "I have beenthinking of a chest for some time."Mrs. Peterkin thought a whole chest would not be needed: it was as wellto buy the tea and coffee by the pound. But Mr. Peterkin determined on achest of tea and a bag of coffee.So they decided to give the invitations to all. It might be a stormyevening and some would be prevented.The lady from Philadelphia and her daughters accepted.And it turned out a fair day, and more came than were expected. AnnMaria Bromwick had a friend staying with her, and brought her over, forthe Bromwicks were opposite neighbors. And the Tremletts had a niece,and Mary Osborne an aunt, that they took the liberty to bring.The little boys were at the door, to show in the guests, and as eachset came to the front gate, they ran back to tell their mother that morewere coming.Mrs. Peterkin had grown dizzy with counting those who had come, andtrying to calculate how many were to come, and wondering why there werealways more and never less, and whether the cups would go round.The three Tremletts all came, with their niece. They all had had theirheadaches the day before, and were having that banged feeling you alwayshave after a headache; so they all sat at the same side of the room onthe long sofa.All the Jefferses came, though they had sent uncertain answers. Old Mr.Jeffers had to be helped in, with his cane, by Mr. Peterkin.The Gibbons boys came, and would stand just outside the parlor door.And Juliana appeared afterward, with the two other sisters, unexpectedlyhome from the West."Got home this morning!" they said. "And so glad to be in time tosee everybody,--a little tired, to be sure, after forty-eight hours in asleeping-car!""Forty-eight!" repeated Mrs. Peterkin; and wondered if there wereforty-eight people, and why they were all so glad to come, and whetherall could sit down.Old Mr. and Mrs. Bromwick came. They thought it would not be neighborlyto stay away. They insisted on getting into the most uncomfortableseats.Yet there seemed to be seats enough while the Gibbons boys preferred tostand.But they never could sit round a tea-table. Elizabeth Eliza had thoughtthey all might have room at the table, and Solomon John and the littleboys could help in the waiting.It was a great moment when the lady from Philadelphia arrived with herdaughters. Mr. Peterkin was talking to Mr. Bromwick, who was a littledeaf. The Gibbons boys retreated a little farther behind the parlordoor. Mrs. Peterkin hastened forward to shake hands with the lady fromPhiladelphia, saying:--"Four Gibbons girls and Mary Osborne's aunt,--thatmakes nineteen; and now"--It made no difference what she said; for therewas such a murmuring of talk that any words suited. And the lady fromPhiladelphia wanted to be introduced to the Bromwicks.It was delightful for the little boys. They came to Elizabeth Eliza, andasked:--"Can't we go and ask more? Can't we fetch the Larkins?""Oh, dear, no!" answered Elizabeth Eliza. "I can't even count them."Mrs. Peterkin found time to meet Elizabeth Eliza in the side entry, toask if there were going to be cups enough."I have set Agamemnon in the front entry to count," said ElizabethEliza, putting her hand to her head.The little boys came to say that the Maberlys were coming."The Maberlys!" exclaimed Elizabeth Eliza. "I never asked them.""It is your father's doing," cried Mrs. Peterkin. "I do believe he askedeverybody he saw!" And she hurried back to her guests."What if father really has asked everybody?" Elizabeth Eliza said toherself, pressing her head again with her hand.There were the cow and the pig. But if they all took tea or coffee, orboth, the cups could not go round.Agamemnon returned in the midst of her agony.He had not been able to count the guests, they moved about so, theytalked so; and it would not look well to appear to count."What shall we do?" exclaimed Elizabeth Eliza."We are not a family for an emergency," said Agamemnon."What do you suppose they did in Philadelphia at the Exhibition, whenthere were more people than cups and saucers?" asked Elizabeth Eliza."Could not you go and inquire? I know the lady from Philadelphia istalking about the Exhibition, and telling how she stayed at home toreceive friends. And they must have had trouble there! Could not you goin and ask, just as if you wanted to know?"Agamemnon looked into the room, but there were too many talking with thelady from Philadelphia."If we could only look into some book," he said,--"the encyclopaedia orthe dictionary, they are such a help sometimes!"At this moment he thought of his "Great Triumphs of Great Men," that hewas reading just now. He had not reached the lives of the Stephensons,or any of the men of modern times. He might skip over to them,--he knewthey were men for emergencies.He ran up to his room, and met Solomon John coming down with chairs."That is a good thought," said Agamemnon. "I will bring down moreupstairs chairs.""No," said Solomon John; "here are all that can come down; the rest ofthe bedroom chairs match bureaus, and they never will do!"Agamemnon kept on to his own room, to consult his books. If only hecould invent something on the spur of the moment,--a set of bedroomfurniture, that in an emergency could be turned into parlor chairs! Itseemed an idea; and he sat himself down to his table and pencils,when he was interrupted by the little boys, who came to tell him thatElizabeth Eliza wanted him.The little boys had been busy thinking. They proposed that thetea-table, with all the things on, should be pushed into the front room,where the company were; and those could take cups who could find cups.But Elizabeth Eliza feared it would not be safe to push so large atable; it might upset, and break what china they had.Agamemnon came down to find her pouring out tea, in the back room. Shecalled to him:--"Agamemnon, you must bring Mary Osborne to help, andperhaps one of the Gibbons boys would carry round some of the cups."And so she began to pour out and to send round the sandwiches, and thetea, and the coffee. Let things go as far as they would!The little boys took the sugar and cream."As soon as they have done drinking bring back the cups and saucers tobe washed," she said to the Gibbons boys and the little boys.This was an idea of Mary Osborne's.But what was their surprise, that the more they poured out, the morecups they seemed to have! Elizabeth Eliza took the coffee, and MaryOsborne the tea.Amanda brought fresh cups from the kitchen."I can't understand it," Elizabeth Eliza said to Amanda. "Do they comeback to you, round through the piazza? Surely there are more cups thanthere were!"Her surprise was greater when some of them proved to be coffee-cups thatmatched the set! And they never had had coffee-cups.Solomon John came in at this moment, breathless with triumph."Solomon John!" Elizabeth Eliza exclaimed; "I cannot understand thecups!""It is my doing," said Solomon John, with an elevated air. "I went tothe lady from Philadelphia, in the midst of her talk. 'What do you do inPhiladelphia, when you haven't enough cups?' 'Borrow of my neighbors,'she answered, as quick as she could.""She must have guessed," interrupted Elizabeth Eliza."That may be," said Solomon John. "But I whispered to Ann MariaBromwick,--she was standing by,--and she took me straight over intotheir closet, and old Mr. Bromwick bought this set just where we boughtours. And they had a coffee-set, too"--"You mean where our father andmother bought them. We were not born," said Elizabeth Eliza."It is all the same," said Solomon John. "They match exactly."So they did, and more and more came in.Elizabeth Eliza exclaimed:"And Agamemnon says we are not a family for emergencies!""Ann Maria was very good about it," said Solomon John; "and quick, too.And old Mrs. Bromwick has kept all her set of two dozen coffee and teacups!"Elizabeth Eliza was ready to faint with delight and relief. She told theGibbons boys, by mistake, instead of Agamemnon, and the little boys. Shealmost let fall the cups and saucers she took in her hand."No trouble now!"She thought of the cow, and she thought of the pig, and she poured on.No trouble, except about the chairs. She looked into the room; allseemed to be sitting down, even her mother. No, her father was standing,talking to Mr.Jeffers. But he was drinking coffee, and the Gibbons boys were handingthings around.The daughters of the lady from Philadelphia were sitting on shawls onthe edge of the window that opened upon the piazza. It was a soft, warmevening, and some of the young people were on the piazza. Everybody wastalking and laughing, except those who were listening.Mr. Peterkin broke away, to bring back his cup and another for morecoffee."It's a great success, Elizabeth Eliza," he whispered. "The coffee isadmirable, and plenty of cups. We asked none too many. I should not mindhaving a tea-party every week."Elizabeth Eliza sighed with relief as she filled his cup. It was goingoff well.There were cups enough, but she was not sure she could live over anothersuch hour of anxiety; and what was to be done after tea?THE PETERKINS TOO LATE FOR THE EXHIBITION.Dramatis Person?.--Amanda (friend of Elizabeth Eliza), Amanda's mother,girls of the graduating class, Mrs. Peterkin, Elizabeth Eliza. AMANDA[coming in with a few graduates ].MOTHER, the exhibition is over, and I have brought the whole class hometo the collation.MOTHER.--The whole class! I But I only expected a few.AMANDA.--The rest are coming. I brought Julie, and Clara, and Sophiewith me. [A voice is heard. ] Here are the rest.MOTHER.--Why, no. It is Mrs. Peterkin and Elizabeth Eliza!AMANDA.--Too late for the exhibition. Such a shame! But in time for thecollation.MOTHER [to herself ].--If the ice-cream will go round.AMANDA.--But what made you so late? Did you miss the train? This isElizabeth Eliza, girls--you have heard me speak of her. What a pity youwere too late!MRS. PETERKIN.--We tried to come; we did our best.MOTHER.--Did you miss the train? Didn't you get my postal-card?MRS. PETERKIN.--We had nothing to do with the train.AMANDA.--You don't mean you walked?MRS. PETERKIN.--O no, indeed!ELIZABETH ELIZA.--We came in a horse and carryall.JULIA.--I always wondered how anybody could come in a horse!AMANDA.--You are too foolish, Julia. They came in the carryall part. Butdidn't you start in time?MRS. PETERKIN.--It all comes from the carryall being so hard to turn. Itold Mr.Peterkin we should get into trouble with one of those carryalls thatdon't turn easy.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--They turn easy enough in the stable, so you can'ttell.MRS. PETERKIN.--Yes; we started with the little boys and Solomon John onthe back seat, and Elizabeth Eliza on the front. She was to drive, and Iwas to see to the driving. But the horse was not faced toward Boston.MOTHER.--And you tipped over in turning round! Oh, what an accident!AMANDA.--And the little boys--where are they? Are they killed?ELIZABETH ELIZA.--The little boys are all safe. We left them at thePringles', with Solomon John.MOTHER.--But what did happen?MRS. PETERKIN.--We started the wrong way.MOTHER.--You lost your way, after all?ELIZABETH ELIZA.--No; we knew the way well enough.AMANDA.--It's as plain as a pikestaff!MRS. PETERKIN.--No; we had the horse faced in the wrongdirection,--toward Providence.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--And mother was afraid to have me turn, and we kept onand on till we should reach a wide place.MRS. PETERKIN.--I thought we should come to a road that would veer offto the right or left, and bring us back to the right direction.MOTHER.--Could not you all get out and turn the thing round?MRS. PETERKIN.--Why, no; if it had broken down we should not have beenin anything, and could not have gone anywhere.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--Yes, I have always heard it was best to stay in thecarriage, whatever happens.JULIA.--But nothing seemed to happen.MRS. PETERKIN.--O yes; we met one man after another, and we asked theway to Boston.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--And all they would say was, "Turn right round--you areon the road to Providence."MRS. PETERKIN.--As if we could turn right round! That was just what wecouldn't.MOTHER.--You don't mean you kept on all the way to Providence?ELIZABETH ELIZA.--O dear, no! We kept on and on, till we met a man witha black hand-bag--black leather I should say.JULIA.--He must have been a book-agent.MRS. PETERKIN.--I dare say he was; his bag seemed heavy. He set it on astone.MOTHER.--I dare say it was the same one that came here the other day.He wanted me to buy the "History of the Aborigines, Brought up fromEarliest Times to the Present Date," in four volumes. I told him Ihadn't time to read so much. He said that was no matter, few did, and itwasn't much worth it--they bought books for the look of the thing.AMANDA.--Now, that was illiterate; he never could have graduated. Ihope, Elizabeth Eliza, you had nothing to do with that man.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--Very likely it was not the same one.MOTHER.--Did he have a kind of pepper-and-salt suit, with one of thebuttons worn?MRS. PETERKIN.--I noticed one of the buttons was off.AMANDA.--We're off the subject. Did you buy his book?ELIZABETH ELIZA.--He never offered us his book.MRS. PETERKIN.--He told us the same story,--we were going to Providence;if we wanted to go to Boston, we must turn directly round.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I told him I couldn't; but he took the horse's head,and the first thing I knew--AMANDA.--He had yanked you round!MRS. PETERKIN.--I screamed; I couldn't help it!ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I was glad when it was over!MOTHER.--Well, well; it shows the disadvantage of starting wrong.MRS. PETERKIN.--Yes, we came straight enough when the horse was headedright; but we lost time.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I am sorry enough I lost the exhibition, and seeingyou take the diploma, Amanda. I never got the diploma myself. I camenear it.MRS. PETERKIN.--Somehow, Elizabeth Eliza never succeeded. I think therewas partiality about the promotions.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I never was good about remembering things. I studiedwell enough, but, when I came to say off my lesson, I couldn't thinkwhat it was. Yet I could have answered some of the other girls'questions.JULIA.--It's odd how the other girls always have the easiest questions.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I never could remember poetry There was only one thingI could repeat.AMANDA.--Oh, do let us have it now; and then we'll recite to you some ofour exhibition pieces.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I'll try.MRS. PETERKIN.--Yes, Elizabeth Eliza, do what you can to help entertainAmanda's friends.[All stand looking at ELIZABETH ELIZA, who remains silent andthoughtful. ] ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I'm trying to think what it is about.You all know it. You remember, Amanda,--the name is rather long.AMANDA.--It can't be Nebuchadnezzar, can it?--that is one of the longestnames I know.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--O dear, no!JULIA.--Perhaps it's Cleopatra.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--It does begin with a "C"--only he was a boy.AMANDA.--That's a pity, for it might be "We are seven," only that is agirl. Some of them were boys.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--It begins about a boy--if I could only think where hewas. I can't remember.AMANDA.--Perhaps he "stood upon the burning deck?"ELIZABETH ELIZA.--That's just it; I knew he stood somewhere.AMANDA.--Casablanca! Now begin--go ahead.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--"The boy stood on the burning deck, When--When--"I can't think who stood there with him.JULIA.--If the deck was burning, it must have been on fire. I guess therest ran away, or jumped into boats.AMANDA.--That's just it:--"Whence all but him had fled."ELIZABETH ELIZA.--I think I can say it now.    "The boy stood on the burning deck,    Whence all but him had fled---"[She hesitates. ] Then I think he went--JULIA.--Of course, he fled after the rest.AMANDA.--Dear, no! That's the point. He didn't.    "The flames rolled on, he would not go    Without his father's word."ELIZABETH ELIZA.--O yes. Now I can say it.    "The boy stood on the burning deck,       Whence all but him had fled;     The flames rolled on, he would not go       Without his father's word."But it used to rhyme. I don't know what has happened to it.MRS. PETERKIN.--Elizabeth Eliza is very particular about the rhymes.ELIZABETH ELIZA.--It must be "without his father's head," or, perhaps,"without his father said" he should.JULIA.--I think you must have omitted something.AMANDA.--She has left out ever so much!MOTHER.--Perhaps it's as well to omit some, for the ice-cream has come,and you must all come down.AMANDA.--And here are the rest of the girls; and let us all unite in asong![Exeunt omnes, singing. ]THE PETERKINS CELEBRATE THE FOURTH OF JULY.THE day began early. A compact had been made with the little boys theevening before.They were to be allowed to usher in the glorious day by the blowing ofhorns exactly at sunrise. But they were to blow them for precisely fiveminutes only, and no sound of the horns should be heard afterward tillthe family were downstairs.It was thought that a peace might thus be bought by a short, thoughcrowded, period of noise.The morning came. Even before the morning, at half-past three o'clock, aterrible blast of the horns aroused the whole family.Mrs. Peterkin clasped her hands to her head and exclaimed: "I amthankful the lady from Philadelphia is not here!" For she had beeninvited to stay a week, but had declined to come before the Fourth ofJuly, as she was not well, and her doctor had prescribed quiet.And the number of the horns was most remarkable! It was as though everycow in the place had arisen and was blowing through both her own horns!"How many little boys are there? How many have we?" exclaimed Mr.Peterkin, going over their names one by one mechanically, thinking hewould do it, as he might count imaginary sheep jumping over a fence, toput himself to sleep. Alas!the counting could not put him to sleep now, in such a din.And how unexpectedly long the five minutes seemed! Elizabeth Elizawas to take out her watch and give the signal for the end of the fiveminutes, and the ceasing of the horns. Why did not the signal come? Whydid not Elizabeth Eliza stop them?And certainly it was long before sunrise; there was no dawn to be seen!"We will not try this plan again," said Mrs. Peterkin."If we live to another Fourth," added Mr. Peterkin, hastening to thedoor to inquire into the state of affairs.Alas! Amanda, by mistake, had waked up the little boys an hour tooearly. And by another mistake the little boys had invited three or fourof their friends to spend the night with them. Mrs. Peterkin had giventhem permission to have the boys for the whole day, and they understoodthe day as beginning when they went to bed the night before. Thisaccounted for the number of horns.It would have been impossible to hear any explanation; but the fiveminutes were over, and the horns had ceased, and there remained onlythe noise of a singular leaping of feet, explained perhaps by a possiblepillow-fight, that kept the family below partially awake until the bellsand cannon made known the dawning of the glorious day,--the sunrise, or"the rising of the sons," as Mr.Peterkin jocosely called it when they heard the little boys and theirfriends clattering down the stairs to begin the outside festivities.They were bound first for the swamp, for Elizabeth Eliza, at thesuggestion of the lady from Philadelphia, had advised them to hang someflags around the pillars of the piazza. Now the little boys knew ofa place in the swamp where they had been in the habit of digging for"flag-root," and where they might find plenty of flag flowers. They didbring away all they could, but they were a little out of bloom. Theboys were in the midst of nailing up all they had on the pillars of thepiazza when the procession of the Antiques and Horribles passed along.As the procession saw the festive arrangements on the piazza, and thecrowd of boys, who cheered them loudly, it stopped to salute the housewith some especial strains of greeting.Poor Mrs. Peterkin! They were directly under her windows! In a fewmoments of quiet, during the boys' absence from the house on theirvisit to the swamp, she had been trying to find out whether she hada sick-headache, or whether it was all the noise, and she was justdeciding it was the sick headache, but was falling into a light slumber,when the fresh noise outside began.There were the imitations of the crowing of cocks, and braying ofdonkeys, and the sound of horns, encored and increased by the cheers ofthe boys. Then began the torpedoes, and the Antiques and Horribles hadChinese crackers also.And, in despair of sleep, the family came down to breakfast.Mrs. Peterkin had always been much afraid of fire-works, and had neverallowed the boys to bring gunpowder into the house. She was even afraidof torpedoes; they looked so much like sugar-plums she was sure some thechildren would swallow them, and explode before anybody knew it.She was very timid about other things. She was not sure even aboutpea-nuts.Everybody exclaimed over this: "Surely there was no danger in pea-nuts!"But Mrs. Peterkin declared she had been very much alarmed at theCentennial Exhibition, and in the crowded corners of the streets inBoston, at the pea-nut stands, where they had machines to roast thepea-nuts. She did not think it was safe. They might go off any time, inthe midst of a crowd of people, too!Mr. Peterkin thought there actually was no danger, and he should besorry to give up the pea-nut. He thought it an American institution,something really belonging to the Fourth of July. He even confessed toa quiet pleasure in crushing the empty shells with his feet on thesidewalks as he went along the streets.Agamemnon thought it a simple joy.In consideration, however, of the fact that they had had no realcelebration of the Fourth the last year, Mrs. Peterkin had consentedto give over the day, this year, to the amusement of the family asa Centennial celebration. She would prepare herself for a terriblenoise,--only she did not want any gunpowder brought into the house.The little boys had begun by firing some torpedoes a few daysbeforehand, that their mother might be used to the sound, and hadselected their horns some weeks before.Solomon John had been very busy in inventing some fireworks. As Mrs.Peterkin objected to the use of gunpowder, he found out from thedictionary what the different parts of gunpowder are,--saltpetre,charcoal, and sulphur. Charcoal, he discovered, they had in thewood-house; saltpetre they would find in the cellar, in the beef barrel;and sulphur they could buy at the apothecary's. He explained to hismother that these materials had never yet exploded in the house, and shewas quieted.Agamemnon, meanwhile, remembered a recipe he had read somewhere formaking a "fulminating paste" of iron-filings and powder of brimstone. Hehad written it down on a piece of paper in his pocket-book. But theiron filings must be finely powdered. This they began upon a day or twobefore, and the very afternoon before laid out some of the paste on thepiazza.Pin-wheels and rockets were contributed by Mr. Peterkin for the evening.According to a programme drawn up by Agamemnon and Solomon John, thereading of the Declaration of Independence was to take place in themorning, on the piazza, under the flags.The Bromwicks brought over their flag to hang over the door."That is what the lady from Philadelphia meant," explained ElizabethEliza."She said the flags of our country," said the little boys. "Wethought she meant 'in the country.'"Quite a company assembled; but it seemed nobody had a copy of theDeclaration of Independence.Elizabeth Eliza said she could say one line, if they each could add asmuch. But it proved they all knew the same line that she did, as theybegan:--"When, in the course of--when, in the course of--when, in thecourse of human--when in the course of human events--when, in the courseof human events, it becomes--when, in the course of human events,it becomes necessary--when, in the course of human events it becomesnecessary for one people"--They could not get any farther. Some of theparty decided that "one people" was a good place to stop, and the littleboys sent off some fresh torpedoes in honor of the people. But Mr.Peterkin was not satisfied. He invited the assembled party to stay untilsunset, and meanwhile he would find a copy, and torpedoes were to besaved to be fired off at the close of every sentence.And now the noon bells rang and the noon bells ceased.Mrs. Peterkin wanted to ask everybody to dinner. She should havesome cold beef. She had let Amanda go, because it was the Fourth, andeverybody ought to be free that one day; so she could not have much of adinner. But when she went to cut her beef she found Solomon had taken itto soak, on account of the saltpetre, for the fireworks!Well, they had a pig; so she took a ham, and the boys had boughttamarinds and buns and a cocoa-nut. So the company stayed on, and whenthe Antiques and Horribles passed again they were treated to pea-nutsand lemonade.They sung patriotic songs, they told stories, they fired torpedoes, theyfrightened the cats with them. It was a warm afternoon; the red poppieswere out wide, and the hot sun poured down on the alley-ways in thegarden. There was a seething sound of a hot day in the buzzing ofinsects, in the steaming heat that came up from the ground. Someneighboring boys were firing a toy cannon. Every time it went off Mrs.Peterkin started, and looked to see if one of the little boys was gone.Mr. Peterkin had set out to find a copy of the "Declaration." Agamemnonhad disappeared. She had not a moment to decide about her headache.She asked Ann Maria if she were not anxious about the fireworks, and ifrockets were not dangerous. They went up, but you were never sure wherethey came down.And then came a fresh tumult! All the fire-engines in town rushed towardthem, clanging with bells, men and boys yelling! They were out for apractice and for a Fourth-of-July show.Mrs. Peterkin thought the house was on fire, and so did some of theguests.There was great rushing hither and thither. Some thought they wouldbetter go home; some thought they would better stay. Mrs. Peterkinhastened into the house to save herself, or see what she could save.Elizabeth Eliza followed her, first proceeding to collect all the pokersand tongs she could find, because they could be thrown out of the windowwithout breaking. She had read of people who had flung looking-glassesout of the window by mistake, in the excitement of the house being onfire, and had carried the pokers and tongs carefully into the garden.There was nothing like being prepared. She had always determined to dothe reverse. So with calmness she told Solomon John to take down thelooking-glasses. But she met with a difficulty,--there were no pokers andtongs, as they did not use them. They had no open fires; Mrs. Peterkinhad been afraid of them. So Elizabeth Eliza took all the pots andkettles up to the upper windows, ready to be thrown out.But where was Mrs. Peterkin? Solomon John found she had fled to theattic in terror. He persuaded her to come down, assuring her it was themost unsafe place; but she insisted upon stopping to collect some bagsof old pieces, that nobody would think of saving from the general wreck,she said, unless she did. Alas! this was the result of fireworks onFourth of July! As they came downstairs they heard the voices of all thecompany declaring there was no fire; the danger was past. It was longbefore Mrs. Peterkin could believe it. They told her the fire companywas only out for show, and to celebrate the Fourth of July. She thoughtit already too much celebrated.Elizabeth Eliza's kettles and pans had come down through the windowswith a crash, that had only added to the festivities, the little boysthought.Mr. Peterkin had been roaming about all this time in search of a copy ofthe Declaration of Independence. The public library was shut, and hehad to go from house to house; but now, as the sunset bells and cannonbegan, he returned with a copy, and read it, to the pealing of the bellsand sounding of the cannon.Torpedoes and crackers were fired at every pause. Some sweet-marjorampots, tin cans filled with crackers which were lighted, went off withgreat explosions.At the most exciting moment, near the close of the reading, Agamemnon,with an expression of terror, pulled Solomon John aside."I have suddenly remembered where I read about the 'fulminating paste'we made. It was in the preface to 'Woodstock,' and I have been round toborrow the book to read the directions over again, because I was afraidabout the 'paste' going off. READ THIS QUICKLY! and tell me, Where isthe fulminating paste?"Solomon John was busy winding some covers of paper over a little parcel.It contained chlorate of potash and sulphur mixed. A friend had told himof the composition. The more thicknesses of paper you put round it thelouder it would go off. You must pound it with a hammer. Solomon Johnfelt it must be perfectly safe, as his mother had taken potash for amedicine.He still held the parcel as he read from Agamemnon's book: "This paste,when it has lain together about twenty-six hours, will of itself takefire, and burn all the sulphur away with a blue flame and a bad smell.""Where is the paste?" repeated Solomon John, in terror."We made it just twenty-six hours ago," said Agamemnon."We put it on the piazza," exclaimed Solomon John, rapidly recalling thefacts, "and it is in front of our mother's feet!"He hastened to snatch the paste away before it should take fire,flinging aside the packet in his hurry. Agamemnon, jumping upon thepiazza at the same moment, trod upon the paper parcel, which exploded atonce with the shock, and he fell to the ground, while at the same momentthe paste "fulminated" into a blue flame directly in front of Mrs.Peterkin!It was a moment of great confusion. There were cries and screams. Thebells were still ringing, the cannon firing, and Mr. Peterkin had justreached the closing words: "Our lives, our fortunes, and our sacredhonor.""We are all blown up, as I feared we should be," Mrs. Peterkin atlength ventured to say, finding herself in a lilac-bush by the side ofthe piazza. She scarcely dared to open her eyes to see the scatteredlimbs about her.It was so with all. Even Ann Maria Bromwick clutched a pillar of thepiazza, with closed eyes.At length Mr. Peterkin said, calmly, "Is anybody killed?"There was no reply. Nobody could tell whether it was because everybodywas killed, or because they were too wounded to answer. It was a greatwhile before Mrs. Peterkin ventured to move.But the little boys soon shouted with joy, and cheered the success ofSolomon John's fireworks, and hoped he had some more. One of them hadhis face blackened by an unexpected cracker, and Elizabeth Eliza'smuslin dress was burned here and there. But no one was hurt; no one hadlost any limbs, though Mrs. Peterkin was sure she had seen some flyingin the air. Nobody could understand how, as she had kept her eyes firmlyshut.No greater accident had occurred than the singeing of the tip of SolomonJohn's nose. But there was an unpleasant and terrible odor from the"fulminating paste."Mrs. Peterkin was extricated from the lilac-bush. No one knew how shegot there.Indeed, the thundering noise had stunned everybody. It had roused theneighborhood even more than before. Answering explosions came on everyside, and, though the sunset light had not faded away, the little boyshastened to send off rockets under cover of the confusion. SolomonJohn's other fireworks would not go. But all felt he had done enough.Mrs. Peterkin retreated into the parlor, deciding she really did have aheadache. At times she had to come out when a rocket went off, to seeif it was one of the little boys. She was exhausted by the adventures ofthe day, and almost thought it could not have been worse if the boyshad been allowed gunpowder. The distracted lady was thankful there waslikely to be but one Centennial Fourth in her lifetime, and declared sheshould never more keep anything in the house as dangerous as saltpetredbeef, and she should never venture to take another spoonful of potash.THE PETERKINS' PICNIC.THERE was some doubt about the weather. Solomon John looked at the"Probabilities;" there were to be "areas" of rain in the New EnglandStates.Agamemnon thought if they could only know where the areas of rain wereto be they might go to the others. Mr. Peterkin proposed walking roundthe house in a procession, to examine the sky. As they returned theymet Ann Maria Bromwick, who was to go, much surprised not to find themready.Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin were to go in the carryall, and take up the ladyfrom Philadelphia, and Ann Maria, with the rest, was to follow in awagon, and to stop for the daughters of the lady from Philadelphia. Thewagon arrived, and so Mr. Peterkin had the horse put into the carryall.A basket had been kept on the back piazza for some days, where anybodycould put anything that would be needed for the picnic as soon as it wasthought of.Agamemnon had already decided to take a thermometer; somebody was alwayscomplaining of being too hot or too cold at a picnic, and it would be agreat convenience to see if she really were so. He thought now he mighttake a barometer, as "Probabilities" was so uncertain. Then, if it wentdown in a threatening way, they could all come back.The little boys had tied their kites to the basket. They had never triedthem at home; it might be a good chance on the hills. Solomon Johnhad put in some fishing-poles; Elizabeth Eliza, a book of poetry. Mr.Peterkin did not like sitting on the ground, and proposed taking twochairs, one for himself and one for anybody else. The little boys wereperfectly happy; they jumped in and out of the wagon a dozen times, withnew india-rubber boots, bought for the occasion.Before they started, Mrs. Peterkin began to think she had already hadenough of the picnic, what with going and coming, and trying to rememberthings. So many mistakes were made. The things that were to go in thewagon were put in the carryall, and the things in the carryall had to betaken out for the wagon!Elizabeth Eliza forgot her water-proof, and had to go back for her veil,and Mr.Peterkin came near forgetting his umbrella.Mrs. Peterkin sat on the piazza and tried to think. She felt as if shemust have forgotten something; she knew she must. Why could not shethink of it now, before it was too late? It seems hard any day to thinkwhat to have for dinner, but how much easier now it would be to stay athome quietly and order the dinner,--and there was the butcher's cart! Butnow they must think of everything.At last she was put into the carryall, and Mr. Peterkin in front todrive.Twice they started, and twice they found something was left behind,--theloaf of fresh brown bread on the back piazza, and a basket of sandwicheson the front porch. And just as the wagon was leaving, the little boysshrieked, "The basket of things was left behind!"Everybody got out of the wagon. Agamemnon went back into the house, tosee if anything else were left. He looked into the closets; he shutthe front door, and was so busy that he forgot to get into the wagonhimself. It started off and went down the street without him!He was wondering what he should do if he were left behind (why had theynot thought to arrange a telegraph wire to the back wheel of thewagon, so that he might have sent a message in such a case!), when theBromwicks drove out of their yard in their buggy, and took him in.They joined the rest of the party at Tatham Corners, where they wereall to meet and consult where they were to go. Mrs. Peterkin called toAgamemnon, as soon as he appeared. She had been holding the barometerand the thermometer, and they waggled so that it troubled her. It washard keeping the thermometer out of the sun, which would make it sowarm. It really took away her pleasure, holding the things. Agamemnondecided to get into the carryall, on the seat with his father, and takethe barometer and thermometer.The consultation went on. Should they go to Cherry Swamp, or LonetownHill? You had the view if you went to Lonetown Hill, but maybe the driveto Cherry Swamp was prettier.Somebody suggested asking the lady from Philadelphia, as the picnic wasgot up for her.But where was she?"I declare," said Mr. Peterkin, "I forgot to stop for her!" The wholepicnic there, and no lady from Philadelphia!It seemed the horse had twitched his head in a threatening manner asthey passed the house, and Mr. Peterkin had forgotten to stop, and Mrs.Peterkin had been so busy managing the thermometers that she had notnoticed, and the wagon had followed on behind.Mrs. Peterkin was in despair. She knew they had forgotten something! Shedid not like to have Mr. Peterkin make a short turn, and it was gettinglate, and what would the lady from Philadelphia think of it, and hadthey not better give it all up?But everybody said "No!" and Mr. Peterkin said he could make a wide turnround the Lovejoy barn. So they made the turn, and took up the lady fromPhiladelphia, and the wagon followed behind and took up their daughters,for there was a driver in the wagon besides Solomon John.Ann Maria Bromwick said it was so late by this time, they might as wellstop and have the picnic on the Common! But the question was put again,Where should they go?The lady from Philadelphia decided for Strawberry Nook--it soundedinviting.There were no strawberries, and there was no nook, it was said, butthere was a good place to tie the horses.Mrs. Peterkin was feeling a little nervous, for she did not know whatthe lady from Philadelphia would think of their having forgotten her,and the more she tried to explain it, the worse it seemed to make it.She supposed they never did such things in Philadelphia; she knew theyhad invited all the world to a party, but she was sure she would neverwant to invite anybody again. There was no fun about it till it was allover. Such a mistake--to have a party for a person, and then go withouther; but she knew they would forget something! She wished they had notcalled it their picnic.There was another bother! Mr. Peterkin stopped. "Was anything broke?"exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin. "Was something forgotten?" asked the lady fromPhiladelphia.No! But Mr. Peterkin didn't know the way; and here he was leading allthe party, and a long row of carriages following.They stopped, and it seemed nobody knew the way to Strawberry Nook,unless it was the Gibbons boys, who were far behind. They were madeto drive up, and said that Strawberry Nook was in quite a differentdirection, but they could bring the party round to it through themeadows.The lady from Philadelphia thought they might stop anywhere, such apleasant day, but Mr. Peterkin said they were started for StrawberryNook, and had better keep on, So they kept on. It proved to be anexcellent place, where they could tie the horses to a fence. Mrs.Peterkin did not like their all heading different ways; it seemed as ifany of them might come at her, and tear up the fence, especially as thelittle boys had their kites flapping round. The Tremletts insisted uponthe whole party going up the hill; it was too damp below. So the Gibbonsboys, and the little boys and Agamemnon, and Solomon John, and allthe party had to carry everything up to the rocks. The large basket of"things" was very heavy.It had been difficult to lift it into the wagon, and it was harder totake it out. But with the help of the driver, and Mr. Peterkin, and oldMr. Bromwick, it was got up the hill.And at last all was arranged. Mr. Peterkin was seated in his chair. Theother was offered to the lady from Philadelphia, but she preferred thecarriage cushions; so did old Mr. Bromwick. And the table-cloth wasspread,--for they did bring a table-cloth,--and the baskets were opened,and the picnic really began.The pickles had tumbled into the butter, and the spoons had beenforgotten, and the Tremletts' basket had been left on their frontdoor-step. But nobody seemed to mind. Everybody was hungry, andeverything they ate seemed of the best. The little boys were perfectlyhappy, and ate of all the kinds of cake. Two of the Tremletts wouldstand while they were eating, because they were afraid of the ants andthe spiders that seemed to be crawling round. And Elizabeth Eliza had tokeep poking with a fern leaf to drive the insects out of the plates.The lady from Philadelphia was made comfortable with the cushions andshawls, leaning against a rock. Mrs. Peterkin wondered if she forgot shehad been forgotten.John Osborne said it was time for conundrums, and asked: "Why is apastoral musical play better than the music we have here? Because one isa grasshopper, and the other is a grass-opera!"Elizabeth Eliza said she knew a conundrum, a very funny one, one of herfriends in Boston had told her. It was, "Why is--" It began, "Why issomething like--no, Why are they different?" It was something about anold woman, or else it was something about a young one. It was veryfunny, if she could only think what it was about, or whether it wasalike or different.The lady from Philadelphia was proposing they should guess ElizabethEliza's conundrum, first the question, and then the answer, when oneof the Tremletts came running down the hill, and declared she had justdiscovered a very threatening cloud, and she was sure it was going torain down directly.Everybody started up, though no cloud was to be seen.There was a great looking for umbrellas and water-proofs. Then itappeared that Elizabeth Eliza had left hers, after all, though she hadgone back for it twice.Mr. Peterkin knew he had not forgotten his umbrella, because he had putthe whole umbrella-stand into the wagon, and it had been brought up thehill, but it proved to hold only the family canes!There was a great cry for the "emergency basket," that had not beenopened yet.Mrs. Peterkin explained how for days the family had been putting intoit what might be needed, as soon as anything was thought of. Everybodystopped to see its contents. It was carefully covered with newspapers.First came out a backgammon-board. "That would be useful," said AnnMaria, "if we have to spend the afternoon in anybody's barn." Next, apair of andirons. "What were they for?" "In case of needing a firein the woods," explained Solomon John. Then came a volume of theEncyclop?dia. But it was the first volume, Agamemnon now regretted, andcontained only A and a part of B, and nothing about rain or showers.Next, a bag of pea-nuts, put in by the little boys, and ElizabethEliza's book of poetry, and a change of boots for Mr. Peterkin; a smallfoot-rug in case the ground should be damp; some paint-boxes of thelittle boys'; a box of fish-hooks for Solomon John; an ink-bottle,carefully done up in a great deal of newspaper, which was fortunate, asthe ink was oozing out; some old magazines, and a blacking-bottle;and at the bottom, a sun-dial. It was all very entertaining, and thereseemed to be something for every occasion but the present. OldMr. Bromwick did not wonder the basket was so heavy. It was all sointeresting that nobody but the Tremletts went down to the carriages.The sun was shining brighter than ever, and Ann Maria insisted onsetting up the sun-dial. Certainly there was no danger of a shower, andthey might as well go on with the picnic. But when Solomon John and AnnMaria had arranged the sun-dial, they asked everybody to look at theirwatches, so that they might see if it was right. And then came a greatexclamation at the hour: "It was time they were all going home!"The lady from Philadelphia had been wrapping her shawl about her, as shefelt the sun was low. But nobody had any idea it was so late! Well, theyhad left late, and went back a great many times, had stopped sometimesto consult, and had been long on the road, and it had taken a long timeto fetch up the things, so it was no wonder it was time to go away. Butit had been a delightful picnic, after all.THE PETERKINS' CHARADES.EVER since the picnic the Peterkins had been wanting to have "something"at their house in the way of entertainment. The little boys wanted toget up a "great Exposition," to show to the people of the place. But Mr.Peterkin thought it too great an effort to send to foreign countries for"exhibits," and it was given up.There was, however, a new water-trough needed on the town common,and the ladies of the place thought it ought to be somethinghandsome,--something more than a common trough,--and they ought to workfor it.Elizabeth Eliza had heard at Philadelphia how much women had done, andshe felt they ought to contribute to such a cause. She had an idea, butshe would not speak of it at first, not until after she had written tothe lady from Philadelphia. She had often thought, in many cases, ifthey had asked her advice first, they might have saved trouble.Still, how could they ask advice before they themselves knew what theywanted?It was very easy to ask advice, but you must first know what to askabout. And again: Elizabeth Eliza felt you might have ideas, butyou could not always put them together. There was this idea of thewater-trough, and then this idea of getting some money for it. Soshe began with writing to the lady from Philadelphia. The little boysbelieved she spent enough for it in postage-stamps before it all cameout.But it did come out at last that the Peterkins were to havesome charades at their own house for the benefit of the neededwater-trough,--tickets sold only to especial friends. Ann Maria Bromwickwas to help act, because she could bring some old bonnets and gowns thathad been worn by an aged aunt years ago, and which they had always kept.Elizabeth Eliza said that Solomon John would have to be a Turk, and theymust borrow all the red things and cashmere scarfs in the place. Sheknew people would be willing to lend things.Agamemnon thought you ought to get in something about the Hindoos, theywere such an odd people. Elizabeth Eliza said you must not have it tooodd, or people would not understand it, and she did not want anything tofrighten her mother.She had one word suggested by the lady from Philadelphia in herletters,--the one that had "Turk" in it,--but they ought to have two words"Oh, yes," Ann Maria said, "you must have two words; if the people paidfor their tickets they would want to get their money's worth."Solomon John thought you might have "Hindoos"; the little boys couldcolor their faces brown, to look like Hindoos. You could have the firstscene an Irishman catching a hen, and then paying the water-taxes for"dues," and then have the little boys for Hindoos.A great many other words were talked of, but nothing seemed to suit.There was a curtain, too, to be thought of, because the folding-doorsstuck when you tried to open and shut them. Agamemnon said that thePan-Elocutionists had a curtain they would probably lend John Osborne,and so it was decided to ask John Osborne to help.If they had a curtain they ought to have a stage. Solomon John said hewas sure he had boards and nails enough, and it would be easy to make astage if John Osborne would help put it up.All this talk was the day before the charades. In the midst of it AnnMaria went over for her old bonnets and dresses and umbrellas, and theyspent the evening in trying on the various things,--such odd caps andremarkable bonnets! Solomon John said they ought to have plenty ofbandboxes; if you only had bandboxes enough a charade was sure to go offwell; he had seen charades in Boston. Mrs.Peterkin said there were plenty in their attic, and the little boysbrought down piles of them, and the back parlor was filled withcostumes.Ann Maria said she could bring over more things if she only knew whatthey were going to act. Elizabeth Eliza told her to bring anything shehad,--it would all come of use.The morning came, and the boards were collected for the stage. Agamemnonand Solomon John gave themselves to the work, and John Osborne helpedzealously. He said the Pan-Elocutionists would lend a scene also. Therewas a great clatter of bandboxes, and piles of shawls in corners, andsuch a piece of work in getting up the curtain! In the midst of it camein the little boys, shouting, "All the tickets are sold, at ten centseach!""Seventy tickets sold!" exclaimed Agamemnon."Seven dollars for the water-trough!" said Elizabeth Eliza."And we do not know yet what we are going to act!" exclaimed Ann Maria.But everybody's attention had to be given to the scene that was goingup in the background, borrowed from the Pan-Elocutionists. It wasmagnificent, and represented a forest."Where are we going to put seventy people?" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin,venturing, dismayed, into the heaps of shavings, and boards, and litter.The little boys exclaimed that a large part of the audience consistedof boys, who would not take up much room. But how much clearing andsweeping and moving of chairs was necessary before all could be madeready! It was late, and some of the people had already come to securegood seats, even before the actors had assembled."What are we going to act?" asked Ann Maria."I have been so torn with one thing and another," said Elizabeth Eliza,"I haven't had time to think!""Haven't you the word yet?" asked John Osborne, for the audience wasflocking in, and the seats were filling up rapidly."I have got one word in my pocket," said Elizabeth Eliza, "in the letterfrom the lady from Philadelphia. She sent me the parts of the word.Solomon John is to be a Turk, but I don't yet understand the whole ofthe word.""You don't know the word, and the people are all here!" said JohnOsborne, impatiently."Elizabeth Eliza!" exclaimed Ann Maria, "Solomon John says I'm to be aTurkish slave, and I'll have to wear a veil. Do you know where the veilsare? You know I brought them over last night.""Elizabeth Eliza! Solomon John wants you to send him the large cashmerescarf!" exclaimed one of the little boys, coming in."Elizabeth Eliza! you must tell us what kind of faces to make up!" criedanother of the boys.And the audience were heard meanwhile taking the seats on the other sideof the thin curtain."You sit in front, Mrs. Bromwick; you are a little hard of hearing; sitwhere you can hear.""And let Julia Fitch come where she can see," said another voice."And we have not any words for them to hear or see!" exclaimed JohnOsborne, behind the curtain."Oh, I wish we'd never determined to have charades! exclaimed ElizabethEliza."Can't we return the money?""They are all here; we must give them something!" said John Osborne,heroically."And Solomon John is almost dressed," reported Ann Maria,winding a veil around her head."Why don't we take Solomon John's word 'Hindoos' for the first?" saidAgamemnon.John Osborne agreed to go in the first, hunting the "hin," or anything,and one of the little boys took the part of the hen, with the help of afeather duster.The bell rang, and the first scene began.It was a great success. John Osborne's Irish was perfect. Nobody guessedthe word, for the hen crowed by mistake; but it received great applause.Mr. Peterkin came on in the second scene to receive the water-rates, andmade a long speech on taxation. He was interrupted by Ann Maria as anold woman in a huge bonnet. She persisted in turning her back to theaudience, speaking so low nobody heard her; and Elizabeth Eliza, whoappeared in a more remarkable bonnet, was so alarmed she went directlyback, saying she had forgotten something But this was supposed to be theeffect intended, and it was loudly cheered.Then came a long delay, for the little boys brought out a number oftheir friends to be browned for Hindoos. Ann Maria played on the pianotill the scene was ready. The curtain rose upon five brown boys done upin blankets and turbans."I am thankful that is over," said Elizabeth Eliza, "for now we can actmy word. Only I don't myself know the whole.""Never mind, let us act it," said John Osborne, "and the audience canguess the whole.""The first syllable must be the letter P," said Elizabeth Eliza, "and wemust have a school."Agamemnon was master, and the little boys and their friends went on asscholars.All the boys talked and shouted at once, acting their idea of a schoolby flinging pea-nuts about, and scoffing at the master."They'll guess that to be 'row,'" said John Osborne in despair; "they'llnever guess 'P'!"The next scene was gorgeous. Solomon John, as a Turk, reclined on JohnOsborne's army-blanket. He had on a turban, and a long beard, and allthe family shawls. Ann Maria and Elizabeth Eliza were brought in to him,veiled, by the little boys in their Hindoo costumes.This was considered the great scene of the evening, though ElizabethEliza was sure she did not know what to do,--whether to kneel or sitdown; she did not know whether Turkish women did sit down, and she couldnot help laughing whenever she looked at Solomon John. He, however,kept his solemnity. "I suppose I need not say much," he had said, "for Ishall be the 'Turk who was dreaming of the hour.'" But he did orderthe little boys to bring sherbet, and when they brought it without iceinsisted they must have their heads cut off, and Ann Maria fainted, andthe scene closed."What are we to do now?" asked John Osborne, warming up to the occasion."We must have an 'inn' scene," said Elizabeth Eliza, consulting herletter; "two inns, if we can.""We will have some travellers disgusted with one inn, and goingto another," said John Osborne."Now is the time for the bandboxes," said Solomon John, who, sincehis Turk scene was over, could give his attention to the rest of thecharade.Elizabeth Eliza and Ann Maria went on as rival hostesses, trying to drawSolomon John, Agamemnon, and John Osborne into their several inns.The little boys carried valises, hand-bags, umbrellas, and bandboxes.Bandbox after bandbox appeared, and when Agamemnon sat down upon his theapplause was immense. At last the curtain fell."Now for the whole," said John Osborne, as he made his way off the stageover a heap of umbrellas."I can't think why the lady from Philadelphia did not send me thewhole," said Elizabeth Eliza, musing over the letter."Listen, they are guessing," said John Osborne. "'D-ice-box.' I don'twonder they get it wrong.""But we know it can't be that!" exclaimed Elizabeth Eliza, in agony."How can we act the whole if we don't know it ourselves?""Oh, I see it!" said Ann Maria, clapping her hands. "Get your wholefamily in for the last scene."Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin were summoned to the stage, and formed thebackground, standing on stools; in front were Agamemnon and SolomonJohn, leaving room for Elizabeth Eliza between; a little in advance,and in front of all, half kneeling, were the little boys, in theirindia-rubber boots.The audience rose to an exclamation of delight, "The Peterkins!""P-Turk-Inns!"It was not until this moment that Elizabeth Eliza guessed the whole."What a tableau!" exclaimed Mr. Bromwick; "the Peterkin family guessingtheir own charade."THE PETERKINS ARE OBLIGED TO MOVE.AGAMEMNON had long felt it an impropriety to live in a house that wascalled a "semi-detached" house, when there was no other "semi" to it.It had always remained wholly detached, as the owner had never built theother half. Mrs.Peterkin felt this was not a sufficient reason for undertaking theterrible process of a move to another house, when they were fullysatisfied with the one they were in.But a more powerful reason forced them to go. The track of a newrailroad had to be carried directly through the place, and a station wasto be built on that very spot.Mrs. Peterkin so much dreaded moving that she questioned whether theycould not continue to live in the upper part of the house and give upthe lower part to the station. They could then dine at the restaurant,and it would be very convenient about travelling, as there would be nodanger of missing the train, if one were sure of the direction.But when the track was actually laid by the side of the house, and thesteam-engine of the construction train puffed and screamed under thedining-room windows, and the engineer calmly looked in to see what thefamily had for dinner, she felt, indeed, that they must move.But where should they go? It was difficult to find a house thatsatisfied the whole family. One was too far off, and looked into atan-pit; another was too much in the middle of the town, next door toa machine-shop. Elizabeth Eliza wanted a porch covered with vines, thatshould face the sunset; while Mr.Peterkin thought it would not be convenient to sit there looking towardsthe west in the late afternoon (which was his only leisure time), forthe sun would shine in his face. The little boys wanted a house witha great many doors, so that they could go in and out often. But Mr.Peterkin did not like so much slamming, and felt there was more dangerof burglars with so many doors.Agamemnon wanted an observatory, and Solomon John a shed for a workshop.If he could have carpenters' tools and a workbench he could build anobservatory, if it were wanted.But it was necessary to decide upon something, for they must leavetheir house directly. So they were obliged to take Mr. Finch's, at theCorners. It satisfied none of the family. The porch was a piazza, andwas opposite a barn. There were three other doors,--too many toplease Mr. Peterkin, and not enough for the little boys. There was noobservatory, and nothing to observe if there were one, as the house wastoo low and some high trees shut out any view. Elizabeth Eliza hadhoped for a view; but Mr. Peterkin con soled her by deciding it was morehealthy to have to walk for a view, and Mrs. Peterkin agreed that theymight get tired of the same every day.And everybody was glad a selection was made, and the little boys carriedtheir india-rubber boots the very first afternoon.Elizabeth Eliza wanted to have some system in the moving, and spent theevening in drawing up a plan. It would be easy to arrange everythingbeforehand, so that there should not be the confusion that her motherdreaded, and the discomfort they had in their last move. Mrs. Peterkinshook her head; she did not think it possible to move with any comfort.Agamemnon said a great deal could be done with a list and a programme.Elizabeth Eliza declared if all were well arranged a programme wouldmake it perfectly easy. They were to have new parlor carpets, whichcould be put down in the new house the first thing. Then the parlorfurniture could be moved in, and there would be two comfortable rooms,in which Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin could sit while the rest of the movewent on. Then the old parlor carpets could be taken up for the newdining-room and the downstairs bedroom, and the family could meanwhiledine at the old house. Mr. Peterkin did not object to this, though thedistance was considerable, as he felt exercise would be good for themall.Elizabeth Eliza's programme then arranged that the dining-room furnitureshould be moved the third day, by which time one of the old parlorcarpets would be down in the new dining-room, and they could still sleepin the old house. Thus there would always be a quiet, comfortable placein one house or the other. Each night, when Mr. Peterkin came home, hewould find some place for quiet thought and rest, and each day thereshould be moved only the furniture needed for a certain room. Greatconfusion would be avoided and nothing misplaced. Elizabeth Eliza wrotethese last words at the head of her programme,--"Misplace nothing."And Agamemnon made a copy of the programme for each member of thefamily.THE PETERKINS ARE MOVED.--Page 126. The first thing to be done was tobuy the parlor carpets. Elizabeth Eliza had already looked at somein Boston, and the next morning she went, by an early train, with herfather, Agamemnon, and Solomon John, to decide upon them.They got home about eleven o'clock, and when they reached the housewere dismayed to find two furniture wagons in front of the gate, alreadypartly filled! Mrs. Peterkin was walking in and out of the open door, alarge book in one hand, and a duster in the other, and she came to meetthem in an agony of anxiety. What should they do? The furniture cartshad appeared soon after the rest had left for Boston, and the menhad insisted upon beginning to move the things. In vain had she shownElizabeth Eliza's programme; in vain had she insisted they must takeonly the parlor furniture. They had declared they must put the heavypieces in the bottom of the cart, and the lighter furniture on top. Soshe had seen them go into every room in the house, and select one pieceof furniture after another, without even looking at Elizabeth Eliza'sprogramme; she doubted if they could have read it if they had looked atit.Mr. Peterkin had ordered the carters to come; but he had no idea theywould come so early, and supposed it would take them a long time to fillthe carts.But they had taken the dining-room sideboard first,--a heavy piece offurniture,--and all its contents were now on the dining-room tables.Then, indeed, they selected the parlor book-case, but had set every bookon the floor The men had told Mrs. Peterkin they would put the books inthe bottom of the cart, very much in the order they were taken from theshelves. But by this time Mrs. Peterkin was considering the carters asnatural enemies, and dared not trust them; besides, the books ought allto be dusted. So she was now holding one of the volumes of Agamemnon'sEncyclop?dia, with difficulty, in one hand, while she was dusting itwith the other. Elizabeth Eliza was in dismay. At this moment four menwere bringing down a large chest of drawers from her father's room, andthey called to her to stand out of the way. The parlors were a scene ofconfusion. In dusting the books Mrs. Peterkin neglected to restore themto the careful rows in which they were left by the men, and they lay inhopeless masses in different parts of the room. Elizabeth Eliza sunk indespair upon the end of a sofa."It would have been better to buy the red and blue carpet," said SolomonJohn."Is not the carpet bought?" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin. And then they wereobliged to confess they had been unable to decide upon one, and had comeback to consult Mrs. Peterkin."What shall we do?" asked Mrs. Peterkin.Elizabeth Eliza rose from the sofa and went to the door, saying, "Ishall be back in a moment."Agamemnon slowly passed round the room, collecting the scattered volumesof his Encyclop?dia. Mr. Peterkin offered a helping hand to a manlifting a wardrobe.Elizabeth Eliza soon returned. "I did not like to go and ask her. ButI felt that I must in such an emergency. I explained to her the wholematter, and she thinks we should take the carpet at Makillan's.""Makillan's" was a store in the village, and the carpet was the only oneall the family had liked without any doubt; but they had supposed theymight prefer one from Boston.The moment was a critical one. Solomon John was sent directly toMakillan's to order the carpet to be put down that very day. But whereshould they dine? where should they have their supper? and where was Mr.Peterkin's "quiet hour"?Elizabeth Eliza was frantic; the dining-room floor and table werecovered with things.It was decided that Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin should dine at the Bromwicks,who had been most neighborly in their offers, and the rest should getsomething to eat at the baker's.Agamemnon and Elizabeth Eliza hastened away to be ready to receive thecarts at the other house, and direct the furniture as they could. Afterall there was something exhilarating in this opening of the new house,and in deciding where things should go. Gayly Elizabeth Eliza steppeddown the front garden of the new home, and across the piazza, and to thedoor. But it was locked, and she had no keys!"Agamemnon, did you bring the keys?" she exclaimed.No, he had not seen them since the morning,--when--ah!--yes, the littleboys were allowed to go to the house for their india-rubber boots,as there was a threatening of rain. Perhaps they had left some doorunfastened--perhaps they had put the keys under the door-mat. No, eachdoor, each window, was solidly closed, and there was no mat!"I shall have to go to the school to see if they took the keys withthem," said Agamemnon; "or else go home to see if they left them there."The school was in a different direction from the house, and far at theother end of the town; for Mr. Peterkin had not yet changed the boys'school, as he proposed to do after their move."That will be the only way," said Elizabeth Eliza; for it had beenarranged that the little boys should take their lunch to school, and notcome home at noon.She sat down on the steps to wait, but only for a moment, for thecarts soon appeared, turning the corner. What should be done with thefurniture? Of course the carters must wait for the keys, as she shouldneed them to set the furniture up in the right places. But they couldnot stop for this. They put it down upon the piazza, on the steps, inthe garden, and Elizabeth Eliza saw how incongruous it was! There wassomething from every room in the house! Even the large family chest,which had proved too heavy for them to travel with had come down fromthe attic, and stood against the front door.And Solomon John appeared with the carpet woman, and a boy with awheelbarrow, bringing the new carpet. And all stood and waited. Someopposite neighbors appeared to offer advice and look on, and ElizabethEliza groaned inwardly that only the shabbiest of their furnitureappeared to be standing full in view.It seemed ages before Agamemnon returned, and no wonder; for he had beento the house, then to the school, then back to the house, for one ofthe little boys had left the keys at home, in the pocket of his clothes.Meanwhile the carpet-woman had waited, and the boy with the wheelbarrowhad waited, and when they got in they found the parlor must be swept andcleaned. So the carpet-woman went off in dudgeon, for she was sure therewould not be time enough to do anything.And one of the carts came again, and in their hurry the men set thefurniture down anywhere. Elizabeth Eliza was hoping to make a littleplace in the dining-room, where they might have their supper, and gohome to sleep. But she looked out, and there were the carters bringingthe bedsteads, and proceeding to carry them upstairs.In despair Elizabeth Eliza went back to the old house. If she had beenthere she might have prevented this. She found Mrs. Peterkin in an agonyabout the entry oil-cloth. It had been made in the house, and how couldit be taken out of the house? Agamemnon made measurements; it certainlycould not go out of the front door! He suggested it might be left tillthe house was pulled down, when it could easily be moved out of oneside. But Elizabeth Eliza reminded him that the whole house was tobe moved without being taken apart. Perhaps it could be cut in stripsnarrow enough to go out. One of the men loading the remaining cartdisposed of the question by coming in and rolling up the oil-cloth andcarrying it on on top of his wagon.Elizabeth Eliza felt she must hurry back to the new house. But whatshould they do?--no beds here, no carpets there! The dining-room tableand sideboard were at the other house, the plates, and forks, andspoons here. In vain she looked at her programme. It was all reversed;everything was misplaced. Mr. Peterkin would suppose they were to eathere and sleep here, and what had become of the little boys?Meanwhile the man with the first cart had returned. They fell to packingthe dining-room china.They were up in the attic, they were down in the cellar. Even onesuggested to take the tacks out of the parlor carpets, as they shouldwant to take them next.Mrs. Peterkin sunk upon a kitchen chair."Oh, I wish we had decided to stay and be moved in the house!" sheexclaimed.Solomon John urged his mother to go to the new house, for Mr. Peterkinwould be there for his "quiet hour." And when the carters at lastappeared, carrying the parlor carpets on their shoulders, she sighed andsaid, "There is nothing left," and meekly consented to be led away.They reached the new house to find Mr. Peterkin sitting calmly in arocking-chair on the piazza, watching the oxen coming into the oppositebarn. He was waiting for the keys, which Solomon John had taken backwith him. The little boys were in a horse-chestnut tree, at the side ofthe house.Agamemnon opened the door. The passages were crowded with furniture, thefloors were strewn with books; the bureau was upstairs that was to standin a lower bedroom; there was not a place to lay a table,--there wasnothing to lay upon it; for the knives and plates and spoons had notcome, and although the tables were there they were covered with chairsand boxes.At this moment came a covered basket from the lady from Philadelphia. Itcontained a choice supper, and forks and spoons, and at the same momentappeared a pot of hot tea from an opposite neighbor. They placed allthis on the back of a bookcase lying upset, and sat around it. SolomonJohn came rushing in from the gate."The last load is coming! We are all moved!" he exclaimed; and thelittle boys joined in a chorus, "We are moved! we are moved!"Mrs. Peterkin looked sadly round; the kitchen utensils were lying on theparlor lounge, and an old family gun on Elizabeth Eliza's hat-box. Theparlor clock stood on a barrel; some coal-scuttles had been placed onthe parlor table, a bust of Washington stood in the door-way, and thelooking-glasses leaned against the pillars of the piazza. But they weremoved! Mrs. Peterkin felt, indeed, that they were very much moved.THE PETERKINS DECIDE TO LEARN THE LANGUAGES.CERTAINLY now was the time to study the languages. The Peterkins hadmoved into a new house, far more convenient than their old one, wherethey would have a place for everything and everything in its place. Ofcourse they would then have more time.Elizabeth Eliza recalled the troubles of the old house, how for a longtime she was obliged to sit outside of the window upon the piazza, whenshe wanted to play on her piano.Mrs. Peterkin reminded them of the difficulty about the table-cloths.The upper table-cloth was kept in a trunk that had to stand in front ofthe door to the closet under the stairs. But the under table-cloth waskept in a drawer in the closet. So, whenever the cloths were changed,the trunk had to be pushed away under some projecting shelves to makeroom for opening the closet-door (as the under table-cloth must be takenout first), then the trunk was pushed back to make room for it to beopened for the upper table-cloth, and, after all, it was necessary topush the trunk away again to open the closet-door for the knife-tray.This always consumed a great deal of time.Now that the china-closet was large enough, everything could find aplace in it.Agamemnon especially enjoyed the new library. In the old house there wasno separate room for books. The dictionaries were kept upstairs, whichwas very inconvenient, and the volumes of the Encyclop?dia could not betogether. There was not room for all in one place. So from A to P wereto be found downstairs, and from Q to Z were scattered in differentrooms upstairs. And the worst of it was, you could never rememberwhether from A to P included P. "I always went upstairs after P," saidAgamemnon, "and then always found it downstairs, or else it was theother way."Of course now there were more conveniences for study. With the books allin one room, there would be no time wasted in looking for them.Mr. Peterkin suggested they should each take a separate language. Ifthey went abroad, this would prove a great convenience. ElizabethEliza could talk French with the Parisians; Agamemnon, German with theGermans; Solomon John, Italian with the Italians; Mrs. Peterkin, Spanishin Spain; and perhaps he could himself master all the Eastern Languagesand Russian.Mrs. Peterkin was uncertain about undertaking the Spanish, but all thefamily felt very sure they should not go to Spain (as Elizabeth Elizadreaded the Inquisition), and Mrs. Peterkin felt more willing.Still she had quite an objection to going abroad. She had always saidshe would not go till a bridge was made across the Atlantic, and she wassure it did not look like it now.Agamemnon said there was no knowing. There was something new every day,and a bridge was surely not harder to invent than a telephone, for theyhad bridges in the very earliest days.Then came up the question of the teachers. Probably these could be foundin Boston. If they could all come the same day, three could be broughtout in the carryall. Agamemnon could go in for them, and could learn alittle on the way out and in.Mr. Peterkin made some inquiries about the Oriental languages. He wastold that Sanscrit was at the root of all. So he proposed they shouldall begin with Sanscrit. They would thus require but one teacher, andcould branch out into the other languages afterward.But the family preferred learning the separate languages. ElizabethEliza already knew something of the French. She had tried to talkit, without much success, at the Centennial Exhibition, at one of theside-stands. But she found she had been talking with a Moorish gentlemanwho did not understand French. Mr.Peterkin feared they might need more libraries, if all the teachers cameat the same hour; but Agamemnon reminded him that they would be usingdifferent dictionaries. And Mr. Peterkin thought something might belearned by having them all at once. Each one might pick up somethingbeside the language he was studying, and it was a great thing to learnto talk a foreign language while others were talking about you. Mrs.Peterkin was afraid it would be like the Tower of Babel, and hoped itwas all right.Agamemnon brought forward another difficulty. Of course they ought tohave foreign teachers, who spoke only their native languages. But, inthis case, how could they engage them to come, or explain to them aboutthe carryall, or arrange the proposed hours? He did not understand howanybody ever began with a foreigner, because he could not even tell himwhat he wanted.Elizabeth Eliza thought a great deal might be done by signs andpantomime.Solomon John and the little boys began to show how it might be done.Elizabeth Eliza explained how "langues" meant both "languages" and"tongues," and they could point to their tongues. For practice, thelittle boys represented the foreign teachers talking in their differentlanguages, and Agamemnon and Solomon John went to invite them to comeout, and teach the family by a series of signs.Mr. Peterkin thought their success was admirable, and that they mightalmost go abroad without any study of the languages, and trust toexplaining themselves by signs. Still, as the bridge was not yet made,it might be as well to wait and cultivate the languages.Mrs. Peterkin was afraid the foreign teachers might imagine they wereinvited out to lunch. Solomon John had constantly pointed to his mouthas he opened it and shut it, putting out his tongue; and it looked agreat deal more as if he were inviting them to eat, than asking themto teach. Agamemnon suggested that they might carry the separatedictionaries when they went to see the teachers, and that would showthat they meant lessons, and not lunch.Mrs. Peterkin was not sure but she ought to prepare a lunch for them,if they had come all that way; but she certainly did not know what theywere accustomed to eat.Mr. Peterkin thought this would be a good thing to learn of theforeigners. It would be a good preparation for going abroad, and theymight get used to the dishes before starting. The little boys weredelighted at the idea of having new things cooked. Agamemnon had heardthat beer-soup was a favorite dish with the Germans, and he wouldinquire how it was made in the first lesson. Solomon John had heard theywere all very fond of garlic, and thought it would be a pretty attentionto have some in the house the first day, that they might be cheered bythe odor.Elizabeth Eliza wanted to surprise the lady from Philadelphia by herknowledge of French, and hoped to begin on her lessons before thePhiladelphia family arrived for their annual visit.There were still some delays. Mr. Peterkin was very anxious to obtainteachers who had been but a short time in this country. He did not wantto be tempted to talk any English with them. He wanted the latestand freshest languages, and at last came home one day with a list of"brand-new foreigners."They decided to borrow the Bromwicks' carryall to use, beside their own,for the first day, and Mr. Peterkin and Agamemnon drove into town tobring all the teachers out. One was a Russian gentleman, travelling, whocame with no idea of giving lessons, but perhaps he would consent to doso. He could not yet speak English.Mr. Peterkin had his card-case, and the cards of the several gentlemenwho had recommended the different teachers, and he went with Agamemnonfrom hotel to hotel collecting them. He found them all very polite,and ready to come, after the explanation by signs agreed upon. Thedictionaries had been forgotten, but Agamemnon had a directory, whichlooked the same, and seemed to satisfy the foreigners.Mr. Peterkin was obliged to content himself with the Russian insteadof one who could teach Sanscrit, as there was no new teacher of thatlanguage lately arrived.But there was an unexpected difficulty in getting the Russian gentlemaninto the same carriage with the teacher of Arabic, for he was a Turk,sitting with a fez on his head, on the back seat! They glared at eachother, and began to assail each other in every language they knew, noneof which Mr. Peterkin could understand. It might be Russian, it might beArabic. It was easy to understand that they would never consent to sitin the same carriage. Mr. Peterkin was in despair; he had forgottenabout the Russian war! What a mistake to have invited the Turk!Quite a crowd collected on the sidewalk in front of the hotel. But theFrench gentleman politely, but stiffly, invited the Russian to go withhim in the first carryall. Here was another difficulty. For the Germanprofessor was quietly ensconced on the back seat! As soon as the Frenchgentleman put his foot on the step and saw him, he addressed him insuch forcible language that the German professor got out of the door theother side, and came round on the sidewalk, and took him by the collar.Certainly the German and French gentlemen could not be put together, andmore crowd collected!Agamemnon, however, had happily studied up the German word "Herr," andhe applied it to the German, inviting him by signs to take a seat in theother carryall. The German consented to sit by the Turk, as they neitherof them could understand the other; and at last they started, Mr.Peterkin with the Italian by his side, and the French and Russianteachers behind, vociferating to each other in languages unknown toMr. Peterkin, while he feared they were not perfectly in harmony, sohe drove home as fast as possible. Agamemnon had a silent party. TheSpaniard by his side was a little moody, while the Turk and the Germanbehind did not utter a word.At last they reached the house, and were greeted by Mrs. Peterkinand Elizabeth Eliza, Mrs. Peterkin with her llama lace shawl over hershoulders, as a tribute to the Spanish teacher. Mr. Peterkin was carefulto take his party in first, and deposit them in a distant part of thelibrary, far from the Turk or the German, even putting the Frenchman andRussian apart.Solomon John found the Italian dictionary, and seated himself by hisItalian; Agamemnon, with the German dictionary, by the German. Thelittle boys took their copy of the "Arabian Nights" to the Turk. Mr.Peterkin attempted to explain to the Russian that he had no Russiandictionary, as he had hoped to learn Sanscrit of him, while Mrs.Peterkin was trying to inform her teacher that she had no books inSpanish. She got over all fears of the Inquisition, he looked so sad,and she tried to talk a little, using English words, but very slowly,and altering the accent as far as she knew how. The Spaniard bowed,looked gravely interested, and was very polite.Elizabeth Eliza, meanwhile, was trying her grammar phrases with theParisian.She found it easier to talk French than to understand him. Buthe understood perfectly her sentences. She repeated one of hervocabularies, and went on with--"J'ai le livre." "As-tu le pain?""L'enfant a une poire." He listened with great attention, and repliedslowly. Suddenly she started after making out one of his sentences, andwent to her mother to whisper, "They have made the mistake you feared.They think they are invited to lunch! He has just been thanking me forour politeness in inviting them to d?je?ner,--that means breakfast!""They have not had their breakfast!" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin, looking ather Spaniard; "he does look hungry! What shall we do?"Elizabeth Eliza was consulting her father. What should they do? Howshould they make them understand that they invited them to teach, notlunch. Elizabeth Eliza begged Agamemnon to look out "apprendre" in thedictionary. It must mean to teach. Alas, they found it means both toteach and to learn! What should they do? The foreigners were now sittingsilent in their different corners. The Spaniard grew more and moresallow. What if he should faint? The Frenchman was rolling up each ofhis mustaches to a point as he gazed at the German. What if the Russianshould fight the Turk? What if the German should be exasperated by theairs of the Parisian?"We must give them something to eat," said Mr. Peterkin, in a low tone."It would calm them.""If I only knew what they were used to eating," said Mrs. Peterkin.Solomon John suggested that none of them knew what the others were usedto eating, and they might bring in anything.Mrs. Peterkin hastened out with hospitable intents. Amanda could makegood coffee. Mr. Peterkin had suggested some American dish. Solomon Johnsent a little boy for some olives.It was not long before the coffee came in, and a dish of baked beans.Next, some olives and a loaf of bread, and some boiled eggs, and somebottles of beer. The effect was astonishing. Every man spoke his owntongue, and fluently. Mrs.Peterkin poured out coffee for the Spaniard, while he bowed to her. Theyall liked beer, they all liked olives. The Frenchman was fluent about"les moeurs Am?ricaines." Elizabeth Eliza supposed he alluded to theirnot having set any table. The Turk smiled, the Russian was voluble. Inthe midst of the clang of the different languages, just as Mr. Peterkinwas again repeating, under cover of the noise of many tongues, "Howshall we make them understand that we want them to teach?"--at thisvery moment the door was flung open, and there came in the lady fromPhiladelphia, that day arrived, her first call of the season!She started back in terror at the tumult of so many different languages!The family, with joy, rushed to meet her. All together they calledupon her to explain for them. Could she help them? Could she tell theforeigners they wanted to take lessons? Lessons? They had no sooneruttered the word than their guests all started up with faces beamingwith joy. It was the one English word they all knew! They had come toBoston to give lessons! The Russian traveller had hoped to learn Englishin this way. The thought pleased them more than the d?je?ner.Yes, gladly would they give lessons. The Turk smiled at the idea. Thefirst step was taken. The teachers knew they were expected to teach.MODERN IMPROVEMENTS AT THE PETERKINS'.AGAMEMNON felt that it became necessary for him to choose a profession.It was important on account of the little boys. If he should make atrial of several different professions he could find out which would bethe most likely to be successful, and it would then be easy to bring upthe little boys in the right direction.Elizabeth Eliza agreed with this. She thought the family occasionallymade mistakes, and had come near disgracing themselves. Now was theirchance to avoid this in future by giving the little boys a propereducation.Solomon John was almost determined to become a doctor. From earliestchildhood he had practiced writing recipes on little slips of paper.Mrs. Peterkin, to be sure, was afraid of infection. She could not bearthe idea of his bringing one disease after the other into the familycircle. Solomon John, too, did not like sick people. He thought he mightmanage it if he should not have to see his patients while they weresick. If he could only visit them when they were recovering, and whenthe danger of infection was over, he would really enjoy making calls.He should have a comfortable doctor's chaise, and take one of the littleboys to hold his horse while he went in, and he thought he could getthrough the conversational part very well, and feeling the pulse,perhaps looking at the tongue. He should take and read all thenewspapers, and so be thoroughly acquainted with the news of the day totalk of. But he should not like to be waked up at night to visit. Mr.Peterkin thought that would not be necessary. He had seen signs on doorsof "Night Doctor," and certainly it would be as convenient to have asign of "Not a Night Doctor."Solomon John thought he might write his advice to those of his patientswho were dangerously ill, from whom there was danger of infection. Andthen Elizabeth Eliza agreed that his prescriptions would probably be sosatisfactory that they would keep his patients well,--not too well to dowithout a doctor, but needing his recipes.Agamemnon was delayed, however, in his choice of a profession, by adesire he had to become a famous inventor. If he could only inventsomething important, and get out a patent, he would make himself knownall over the country. If he could get out a patent he would be set upfor life, or at least as long as the patent lasted, and it would be wellto be sure to arrange it to last through his natural life.Indeed, he had gone so far as to make his invention. It had beensuggested by their trouble with a key, in their late moving to their newhouse. He had studied the matter over a great deal. He looked it up inthe Encyclop?dia, and had spent a day or two in the Public Library, inreading about Chubb's Lock and other patent locks.But his plan was more simple. It was this: that all keys should be madealike!He wondered it had not been thought of before; but so it was, SolomonJohn said, with all inventions, with Christopher Columbus, andeverybody. Nobody knew the invention till it was invented, and then itlooked very simple. With Agamemnon's plan you need have but one key,that should fit everything! It should be a medium-sized key, not toolarge to carry. It ought to answer for a house door, but you might opena portmanteau with it. How much less danger there would be of losingone's keys if there were only one to lose!Mrs. Peterkin thought it would be inconvenient if their father were out,and she wanted to open the jam-closet for the little boys. But Agamemnonexplained that he did not mean there should be but one key in thefamily, or in a town,--you might have as many as you pleased, only theyshould all be alike.Elizabeth Eliza felt it would be a great convenience,--they could keepthe front door always locked, yet she could open it with the key of herupper drawer; that she was sure to have with her. And Mrs. Peterkin feltit might be a convenience if they had one on each story, so that theyneed not go up and down for it.Mr. Peterkin studied all the papers and advertisements, to decide aboutthe lawyer whom they should consult, and at last, one morning, they wentinto town to visit a patent-agent.Elizabeth Eliza took the occasion to make a call upon the lady fromPhiladelphia, but she came back hurriedly to her mother."I have had a delightful call," she said; "but--perhaps I was wrong--Icould not help, in conversation, speaking of Agamemnon's proposedpatent. I ought not to have mentioned it, as such things are keptprofound secrets; they say women always do tell things; I suppose thatis the reason.""But where is the harm?" asked Mrs. Peterkin. "I'm sure you can trustthe lady from Philadelphia."Elizabeth Eliza then explained that the lady from Philadelphia hadquestioned the plan a little when it was told her, and had suggestedthat "if everybody had the same key there would be no particular use ina lock.""Did you explain to her," said Mrs. Peterkin, "that we were not allto have the same keys?""I couldn't quite understand her," said Elizabeth Eliza, "but she seemedto think that burglars and other people might come in if the keys werethe same.""Agamemnon would not sell his patent to burglars!" said Mrs. Peterkin,indignantly."But about other people," said Elizabeth Eliza; "there is my upperdrawer; the little boys might open it at Christmas-time,--and theirpresents in it!""And I am not sure that I could trust Amanda," said Mrs. Peterkin,considering.Both she and Elizabeth Eliza felt that Mr. Peterkin ought to know whatthe lady from Philadelphia had suggested. Elizabeth Eliza then proposedgoing into town, but it would take so long she might not reach them intime. A telegram would be better, and she ventured to suggest using theTelegraph Alarm.For, on moving into their new house, they had discovered it was providedwith all the modern improvements. This had been a disappointment to Mrs.Peterkin, for she was afraid of them, since their experience the lastwinter, when their water-pipes were frozen up. She had been originallyattracted to the house by an old pump at the side, which had led herto believe there were no modern improvements. It had pleased the littleboys, too. They liked to pump the handle up and down, and agreed to pumpall the water needed, and bring it into the house.There was an old well, with a picturesque well-sweep, in a corner by thebarn.Mrs. Peterkin was frightened by this at first. She was afraid the littleboys would be falling in every day. And they showed great fondness forpulling the bucket up and down. It proved, however, that the well wasdry. There was no water in it; so she had some moss thrown down, and anold feather-bed, for safety, and the old well was a favorite place ofamusement.The house, it had proved, was well furnished with bath-rooms, and "set-waters" everywhere. Water-pipes and gas-pipes all over the house; and ahack-, telegraph-, and fire-alarm, with a little knob for each.Mrs. Peterkin was very anxious. She feared the little boys would besummoning somebody all the time, and it was decided to conceal fromthem the use of the knobs, and the card of directions at the side wasdestroyed. Agamemnon had made one of his first inventions to help this.He had arranged a number of similar knobs to be put in rows in differentparts of the house, to appear as if they were intended for ornament, andhad added some to the original knobs. Mrs.Peterkin felt more secure, and Agamemnon thought of taking out a patentfor this invention.It was, therefore, with some doubt that Elizabeth Eliza proposed sendinga telegram to her father. Mrs. Peterkin, however, was pleased with theidea.Solomon John was out, and the little boys were at school, and sheherself would touch the knob, while Elizabeth Eliza should write thetelegram."I think it is the fourth knob from the beginning," she said, looking atone of the rows of knobs.Elizabeth Eliza was sure of this. Agamemnon, she believed, had put threeextra knobs at each end."But which is the end, and which is the beginning,--the top or thebottom?" Mrs.Peterkin asked hopelessly.Still she bravely selected a knob, and Elizabeth Eliza hastened with herto look out for the messenger. How soon should they see the telegraphboy?They seemed to have scarcely reached the window, when a terriblenoise was heard, and down the shady street the white horses of thefire-brigade were seen rushing at a fatal speed!It was a terrific moment!"I have touched the fire-alarm," Mrs. Peterkin exclaimed.Both rushed to open the front door in agony. By this time thefire-engines were approaching."Do not be alarmed," said the chief engineer; "the furniture shall becarefully covered, and we will move all that is necessary.""Move again!" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin, in agony.Elizabeth Eliza strove to explain that she was only sending a telegramto her father, who was in Boston."It is not important," said the head engineer; "the fire will all beout before it could reach him."And he ran upstairs, for the engines were beginning to play upon theroof.Mrs. Peterkin rushed to the knobs again hurriedly; there was morenecessity for summoning Mr. Peterkin home."Write a telegram to your father," she said to Elizabeth Eliza, "to'come home directly.'""That will take but three words," said Elizabeth Eliza, with presence ofmind, "and we need ten. I was just trying to make them out.""What has come now?" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin, and they hurriedagain to the window, to see a row of carriages coming down the street."I must have touched the carriage-knob," cried Mrs. Peterkin, "and Ipushed it half-a-dozen times I felt so anxious!"Six hacks stood before the door. All the village boys were assembling.Even their own little boys had returned from school, and were showingthe firemen the way to the well.Again Mrs. Peterkin rushed to the knobs, and a fearful sound arose. Shehad touched the burglar-alarm!The former owner of the house, who had a great fear of burglars, hadinvented a machine of his own, which he had connected with a knob. Awire attached to the knob moved a spring that could put in motion anumber of watchmen's rattles, hidden under the eaves of the piazza.All these were now set a-going, and their terrible din roused those ofthe neighborhood who had not before assembled around the house. At thismoment Elizabeth Eliza met the chief engineer."You need not send for more help," he said; "we have all the enginesin town here, and have stirred up all the towns in the neighborhood;there's no use in springing any more alarms. I can't find the fire yet,but we have water pouring all over the house."Elizabeth Eliza waved her telegram in the air."We are only trying to send a telegram to my father and brother, who arein town," she endeavored to explain."If it is necessary," said the chief engineer, "you might send it downin one of the hackney carriages. I see a number standing before thedoor. We'd better begin to move the heavier furniture, and some of youwomen might fill the carriages with smaller things."Mrs. Peterkin was ready to fall into hysterics. She controlled herselfwith a supreme power, and hastened to touch another knob.Elizabeth Eliza corrected her telegram, and decided to take the adviceof the chief engineer and went to the door to give her message to one ofthe hackmen, when she saw a telegraph boy appear. Her mother had touchedthe right knob. It was the fourth from the beginning; but the beginningwas at the other end!She went out to meet the boy, when, to her joy, she saw behind him herfather and Agamemnon. She clutched her telegram, and hurried towardthem.Mr. Peterkin was bewildered. Was the house on fire? If so, where werethe flames?He saw the row of carriages. Was there a funeral, or a wedding? Who wasdead?Who was to be married?He seized the telegram that Elizabeth Eliza reached to him, and read italoud."Come to us directly--the house is NOT on fire!"The chief engineer was standing on the steps."The house not on fire!" he exclaimed. "What are we all summoned for?""It is a mistake," cried Elizabeth Eliza, wringing her hands. "Wetouched the wrong knob; we wanted the telegraph boy!""We touched all the wrong knobs," exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin, from thehouse.The chief engineer turned directly to give counter-directions, with afew exclamations of disgust, as the bells of distant fire-engines wereheard approaching.Solomon John appeared at this moment, and proposed taking one of thecarriages, and going for a doctor for his mother, for she was now nearlyready to fall into hysterics, and Agamemnon thought to send a telegramdown by the boy, for the evening papers, to announce that the Peterkins'house had not been on fire.The crisis of the commotion had reached its height. The beds of flowers,bordered with dark-colored leaves, were trodden down by the feet of thecrowd that had assembled.The chief engineer grew more and more indignant, as he sent his men toorder back the fire-engines from the neighboring towns. The collectionof boys followed the procession as it went away. The fire-brigadehastily removed covers from some of the furniture, restored the rest totheir places, and took away their ladders. Many neighbors remained, butMr. Peterkin hastened into the house to attend to Mrs. Peterkin.Elizabeth Eliza took an opportunity to question her father, before hewent in, as to the success of their visit to town."We saw all the patent-agents," answered Mr. Peterkin, in a hollowwhisper. "Not one of them will touch the patent, or have anything to dowith it."Elizabeth Eliza looked at Agamemnon, as he walked silently into thehouse. She would not now speak to him of the patent; but she recalledsome words of Solomon John. When they were discussing the patent hehad said that many an inventor had grown gray before his discovery wasacknowledged by the public. Others might reap the harvest, but it came,perhaps, only when he was going to his grave.Elizabeth Eliza looked at Agamemnon reverently, and followed himsilently into the house.AGAMEMNON'S CAREER.THERE had apparently been some mistake in Agamemnon's education. He hadbeen to a number of colleges, indeed, but he had never completed hiscourse in any one.He had continually fallen into some difficulty with the authorities. Itwas singular, for he was of an inquiring mind, and had always tried tofind out what would be expected of him, but had never hit upon the rightthing.Solomon John thought the trouble might be in what they called theelective system, where you were to choose what study you might take.This had always bewildered Agamemnon a good deal."And how was a feller to tell," Solomon John had asked, "whether hewanted to study a thing before he tried it? It might turn out awfulhard!"Agamemnon had always been fond of reading, from his childhood up. He wasat his book all day long. Mrs Peterkin had imagined he would come out agreat scholar, because she could never get him away from his books.And so it was in his colleges; he was always to be found in the library,reading and reading. But they were always the wrong books.For instance: the class were required to prepare themselves on theSpartan war.This turned Agamemnon's attention to the Fenians, and to study thesubject he read up on "Charles O'Malley," and "Harry Lorrequer," andsome later novels of that sort, which did not help him on the subjectrequired, yet took up all his time, so that he found himself unfittedfor anything else when the examinations came. In consequence he wasrequested to leave.Agamemnon always missed in his recitations, for the same reason thatElizabeth Eliza did not get on in school, because he was always askedthe questions he did not know. It seemed provoking; if the professorshad only asked something else!But they always hit upon the very things he had not studied up.Mrs. Peterkin felt this was encouraging, for Agamemnon knew the thingsthey did not know in colleges. In colleges they were willing to takefor students only those who already knew certain things. She thoughtAgamemnon might be a professor in a college for those students whodidn't know those things."I suppose these professors could not have known a great deal," sheadded, "or they would not have asked you so many questions; they wouldhave told you something."Agamemnon had left another college on account of a mistake he had madewith some of his classmates. They had taken a great deal of trouble tobring some wood from a distant wood-pile to make a bonfire with,under one of the professors' windows. Agamemnon had felt it would be acompliment to the professor.It was with bonfires that heroes had been greeted on their return fromsuccessful wars. In this way beacon-lights had been kindled upon loftyheights, that had inspired mariners seeking their homes after distantadventures. As he plodded back and forward he imagined himself some heroof antiquity. He was reading "Plutarch's Lives" with deep interest. Thishad been recommended at a former college, and he was now taking it up inthe midst of his French course.He fancied, even, that some future Plutarch was growing up in Lynn,perhaps, who would write of this night of suffering, and glorify itsheroes.For himself he took a severe cold and suffered from chilblains, inconsequence of going back and forward through the snow, carrying thewood.But the flames of the bonfire caught the blinds of the professor'sroom, and set fire to the building, and came near burning up the wholeinstitution. Agamemnon regretted the result as much as his predecessor,who gave him his name, must have regretted that other bonfire, on theshores of Aulis, that deprived him of a daughter.The result for Agamemnon was that he was requested to leave, afterhaving been in the institution but a few months.He left another college in consequence of a misunderstanding about thehour for morning prayers. He went every day regularly at ten o'clock,but found, afterward, that he should have gone at half-past six. Thishour seemed to him and to Mrs. Peterkin unseasonable, at a time of yearwhen the sun was not up, and he would have been obliged to go to theexpense of candles.Agamemnon was always willing to try another college, wherever he couldbe admitted. He wanted to attain knowledge, however it might be found.But, after going to five, and leaving each before the year was out, hegave it up.He determined to lay out the money that would have been expended in acollegiate education in buying an Encyclop?dia, the most complete thathe could find, and to spend his life studying it systematically. Hewould not content himself with merely reading it, but he would studyinto each subject as it came up, and perfect himself in that subject.By the time, then, that he had finished the Encyclop?dia he should haveembraced all knowledge, and have experienced much of it.The family were much interested in this plan of making practice of everysubject that came up.He did not, of course, get on very fast in this way. In the secondcolumn of the very first page he met with A as a note in music. This ledhim to the study of music. He bought a flute, and took some lessons, andattempted to accompany Elizabeth Eliza on the piano. This, of course,distracted him from his work on the Encyclop?dia. But he did not wish toreturn to A until he felt perfect in music. This required a long time.Then in this same paragraph a reference was made; in it he was requestedto "see Keys." It was necessary, then, to turn to "Keys." This wasabout the time the family were moving, which we have mentioned, when thedifficult subject of keys came up, that suggested to him his own simpleinvention, and the hope of getting a patent for it. This led him astray,as inventions before have done with master-minds, so that he was drawnaside from his regular study.The family, however, were perfectly satisfied with the career Agamemnonhad chosen. It would help them all, in any path of life, if he shouldmaster the Encyclop?dia in a thorough way.Mr. Peterkin agreed it would in the end be not as expensive as a collegecourse, even if Agamemnon should buy all the different Encyclop?diasthat appeared.There would be no "spreads" involved; no expense of receiving friends atentertainments in college; he could live at home, so that it would notbe necessary to fit up another room, as at college. At all the times ofhis leaving he had sold out favorably to other occupants.Solomon John's destiny was more uncertain. He was looking forwardto being a doctor some time, but he had not decided whether to beallopathic or homeopathic, or whether he could not better invent his ownpills. And he could not understand how to obtain his doctor's degree.For a few weeks he acted as clerk in a druggist's store. But he couldserve only in the toothbrush and soap department, because it was foundhe was not familiar enough with the Latin language to compound thedrugs. He agreed to spend his evenings in studying the Latin grammar;but his course was interrupted by his being dismissed for treating thelittle boys too frequently to soda.The little boys were going through the schools regularly. The family hadbeen much exercised with regard to their education. Elizabeth Elizafelt that everything should be expected from them; they ought to takeadvantage from the family mistakes. Every new method that came up wastried upon the little boys.They had been taught spelling by all the different systems, and werejust able to read, when Mr. Peterkin learned that it was now consideredbest that children should not be taught to read till they were ten yearsold.Mrs. Peterkin was in despair. Perhaps, if their books were taken fromthem even then, they might forget what they had learned. But no, theevil was done; the brain had received certain impressions that could notbe blurred over.This was long ago, however. The little boys had since entered the publicschools. They went also to a gymnasium, and a whittling school, andjoined a class in music, and another in dancing; they went to someafternoon lectures for children, when there was no other school, andbelonged to a walking-club. Still Mr. Peterkin was dissatisfied by theslowness of their progress. He visited the schools himself, and foundthat they did not lead their classes. It seemed to him a great deal oftime was spent in things that were not instructive, such as putting onand taking off their india-rubber boots.Elizabeth Eliza proposed that they should be taken from school andtaught by Agamemnon from the Encyclop?dia. The rest of the family mighthelp in the education at all hours of the day. Solomon John could takeup the Latin grammar, and she could give lessons in French.The little boys were enchanted with the plan, only they did not want tohave the study-hours all the time.Mr. Peterkin, however, had a magnificent idea, that they should maketheir life one grand Object Lesson. They should begin at breakfast, andstudy everything put upon the table,--the material of which it was made,and where it came from.In the study of the letter A, Agamemnon had embraced the study of music,and from one meal they might gain instruction enough for a day."We shall have the assistance," said Mr. Peterkin, "of Agamemnon, withhis Encyclop?dia."Agamemnon modestly suggested that he had not yet got out of A, and intheir first breakfast everything would therefore have to begin with A."That would not be impossible," said Mr. Peterkin. "There is Amanda, whowill wait on table, to start with--""We could have 'am-and-eggs," suggested Solomon John Mrs. Peterkin wasdistressed. It was hard enough to think of anything for breakfast, andimpossible, if it all had to begin with one letter.Elizabeth Eliza thought it would not be necessary. All they were to dowas to ask questions, as in examination papers, and find their answersas they could.They could still apply to the Encyclop?dia, even if it were not inAgamemnon's alphabetical course.Mr. Peterkin suggested a great variety. One day they would study thebotany of the breakfast-table, another day, its natural history.The study of butter would include that of the cow. Even that of thebutter-dish would bring in geology.The little boys were charmed at the idea of learning pottery from thecream-jug, and they were promised a potter's wheel directly."You see, my dear," said Mr. Peterkin to his wife, "before many weeks,we shall be drinking our milk from jugs made by our children."Elizabeth Eliza hoped for a thorough study."Yes," said Mr. Peterkin, "we might begin with botany. That would benear to Agamemnon alphabetically. We ought to find out the botany ofbutter. On what does the cow feed?"The little boys were eager to go out and see."If she eats clover," said Mr. Peterkin, "we shall expect the botany ofclover."The little boys insisted that they were to begin the next day; that veryevening they should go out and study the cow.Mrs. Peterkin sighed, and decided she would order a simple breakfast.The little boys took their note-books and pencils, and clambered uponthe fence, where they seated themselves in a row.For there were three little boys. So it was now supposed. They werealways coming in or going out, and it had been difficult to count them,and nobody was very sure how many there were.There they sat, however, on the fence, looking at the cow. She looked atthem with large eyes."She won't eat," they cried, "while we are looking at her!"So they turned about, and pretended to look into the street, and seatedthemselves that way, turning their heads back, from time to time, to seethe cow."Now she is nibbling a clover.""No, that is a bit of sorrel.""It's a whole handful of grass.""What kind of grass?" they exclaimed.It was very hard, sitting with their backs to the cow, and pretending tothe cow that they were looking into the street, and yet to be looking atthe cow all the time, and finding out what she was eating; and the upperrail of the fence was narrow and a little sharp. It was very high,too, for some additional rails had been put on to prevent the cow fromjumping into the garden or street.Suddenly, looking out into the hazy twilight, Elizabeth Eliza sawsix legs and six india-rubber boots in the air, and the little boysdisappeared!"They are tossed by the cow! The little boys are tossed by the cow!"Mrs. Peterkin rushed for the window, but fainted on the way. SolomonJohn and Elizabeth Eliza were hurrying to the door, but stopped, notknowing what to do next. Mrs. Peterkin recovered herself with a supremeeffort, and sent them out to the rescue.But what could they do? The fence had been made so high, to keep the cowout, that nobody could get in. The boy that did the milking had goneoff with the key of the outer gate, and perhaps with the key of the sheddoor. Even if that were not locked, before Agamemnon could get round bythe wood-shed and cow-shed, the little boys might be gored through andthrough!Elizabeth Eliza ran to the neighbors, Solomon John to the druggist's forplasters, while Agamemnon made his way through the dining-room to thewood-shed and outer-shed door. Mr. Peterkin mounted the outside of thefence, while Mrs.Peterkin begged him not to put himself in danger. He climbed high enoughto view the scene. He held to the corner post and reported what he saw.They were not gored. The cow was at the other end of the lot. One of thelittle boys were lying in a bunch of dark leaves. He was moving.The cow glared, but did not stir. Another little boy was pulling hisindia-rubber boots out of the mud. The cow still looked at him.Another was feeling the top of his head. The cow began to crop thegrass, still looking at him.Agamemnon had reached and opened the shed-door. The little boys werenext seen running toward it.A crowd of neighbors, with pitchforks, had returned meanwhile withElizabeth Eliza. Solomon John had brought four druggists. But, by thetime they had reached the house, the three little boys were safe in thearms of their mother!"This is too dangerous a form of education," she cried; "I had ratherthey went to school.""No!" they bravely cried. They were still willing to try the other way.THE EDUCATIONAL BREAKFAST.MRS. PETERKIN'S nerves were so shaken by the excitement of the fall ofthe three little boys into the enclosure where the cow was kept that theeducational breakfast was long postponed. The little boys continued atschool, as before, and the conversation dwelt as little as possible uponthe subject of education.Mrs. Peterkin's spirits, however, gradually recovered. The little boyswere allowed to watch the cow at her feed. A series of strings werearranged by Agamemnon and Solomon John, by which the little boys couldbe pulled up, if they should again fall down into the enclosure. Thesewere planned something like curtain-cords, and Solomon John frequentlyamused himself by pulling one of the little boys up or letting him down.Some conversation did again fall upon the old difficulty of questions.Elizabeth Eliza declared that it was not always necessary to answer;that many who could did not answer questions,--the conductors of therailroads, for instance, who probably knew the names of all the stationson a road, but were seldom able to tell them."Yes," said Agamemnon, "one might be a conductor without even knowingthe names of the stations, because you can't understand them when theydo tell them!""I never know," said Elizabeth Eliza, "whether it is ignorance in them,or unwillingness, that prevents them from telling you how soon onestation is coming, or how long you are to stop, even if one asks ever somany times. It would be useful if they would tell."Mrs. Peterkin thought this was carried too far in the horse-cars inBoston. The conductors had always left you as far as possible from theplace where you wanted to stop; but it seemed a little too much to havethe aldermen take it up, and put a notice in the cars, ordering theconductors "to stop at the farthest crossing."Mrs. Peterkin was, indeed, recovering her spirits. She had been carryingon a brisk correspondence with Philadelphia, that she had imparted to noone, and at last she announced, as its result, that she was ready for abreakfast on educational principles.A breakfast indeed, when it appeared! Mrs. Peterkin had mistakenthe alphabetical suggestion, and had grasped the idea that the wholealphabet must be represented in one breakfast.This, therefore, was the bill of fare: Apple-sauce, Bread, Butter,Coffee, Cream, Doughnuts, Eggs, Fish-balls, Griddles, Ham, Ice (onbutter), Jam, Krout (sour), Lamb-chops, Morning Newspapers, Oatmeal,Pepper, Quince-marmalade, Rolls, Salt, Tea Urn, Veal-pie, Waffles,Yeast-biscuit.Mr. Peterkin was proud and astonished. "Excellent!" he cried. "Everyletter represented except Z." Mrs. Peterkin drew from her pocket aletter from the lady from Philadelphia. "She thought you would call itX-cellent for X, and she tells us," she read, "that if you come with azest, you will bring the Z."Mr. Peterkin was enchanted. He only felt that he ought to invite thechildren in the primary schools to such a breakfast; what a zest,indeed, it would give to the study of their letters!It was decided to begin with Apple-sauce."How happy," exclaimed Mr. Peterkin, "that this should come first ofall! A child might be brought up on apple-sauce till he had masteredthe first letter of the alphabet, and could go on to the more involvedsubjects hidden in bread, butter, baked beans, etc."Agamemnon thought his father hardly knew how much was hidden inthe apple. There was all the story of William Tell and the Swissindependence. The little boys were wild to act William Tell, but Mrs.Peterkin was afraid of the arrows. Mrs.Peterkin proposed they should begin by eating the apple-sauce, thendiscussing it, first botanically, next historically; or perhaps firsthistorically, beginning with Adam and Eve, and the first apple.Mrs. Peterkin feared the coffee would be getting cold, and the griddleswere waiting. For herself, she declared she felt more at home on themarmalade, because the quinces came from grandfather's, and she had seenthem planted; she remembered all about it, and now the bush came up tothe sitting-room window.She seemed to have heard him tell that the town of Quincy, where thegranite came from, was named from them, and she never quite recollectedwhy, except they were so hard, as hard as stone, and it took you almostthe whole day to stew them, and then you might as well set them onagain.Mr. Peterkin was glad to be reminded of the old place at grandfather's.In order to know thoroughly about apples, they ought to understand themaking of cider.Now, they might some time drive up to grandfather's, scarcely twelvemiles away, and see the cider made. Why, indeed, should not the familygo this very day up to grandfather's, and continue the education of thebreakfast?"Why not indeed?" exclaimed the little boys. A day at grandfather'swould give them the whole process of the apple, from the orchard to thecider-mill. In this way they could widen the field of study, even tofollow in time the cup of coffee to Java.It was suggested, too, that at grandfather's they might study theprocesses of maple-syrup as involved in the griddle-cakes.Agamemnon pointed out the connection between the two subjects: they wereboth the products of trees--the apple-tree and the maple. Mr. Peterkinproposed that the lesson for the day should be considered the study oftrees, and on the way they could look at other trees.Why not, indeed, go this very day? There was no time like the present.Their breakfast had been so copious, they would scarcely be in a hurryfor dinner, and would, therefore, have the whole day before them.Mrs. Peterkin could put up the remains of the breakfast for luncheon.But how should they go? The carryall, in spite of its name, could hardlytake the whole family, though they might squeeze in six, as the littleboys did not take up much room.Elizabeth Eliza suggested that she could spend the night atgrandfather's.Indeed, she had been planning a visit there, and would not object tostaying some days. This would make it easier about coming home, but itdid not settle the difficulty in getting there.Why not "Ride and Tie"?The little boys were fond of walking; so was Mr. Peterkin; and Agamemnonand Solomon John did not object to their turn. Mrs. Peterkin could sitin the carriage, when it was waiting for the pedestrians to come up; or,she said, she did not object to a little turn of walking. Mr. Peterkinwould start, with Solomon John and the little boys, before the rest,and Agamemnon should drive his mother and Elizabeth Eliza to the firststopping-place.Then came up another question,--of Elizabeth Eliza's trunk. If she stayeda few days, she would need to carry something. It might be hot, and itmight be cold.Just as soon as she carried her thin things, she would need her heaviestwraps.You never could depend upon the weather. Even "Probabilities" got you nofarther than to-day.In an inspired moment, Elizabeth Eliza bethought herself of theexpressman. She would send her trunk by the express, and she left thetable directly to go and pack it. Mrs. Peterkin busied herself withAmanda over the remains of the breakfast. Mr. Peterkin and Agamemnonwent to order the horse and the expressman, and Solomon John and thelittle boys prepared themselves for a pedestrian excursion.Elizabeth Eliza found it difficult to pack in a hurry; there were somany things she might want, and then again she might not. She mustput up her music, because her grandfather had a piano; and then shebethought herself of Agamemnon's flute, and decided to pick out a volumeor two of the Encyclop?dia. But it was hard to decide, all by herself,whether to take G for griddle-cakes, or M for maple-syrup, or T fortree. She would take as many as she could make room for.She put up her work-box and two extra work-baskets, and she must takesome French books she had never yet found time to read. This involvedtaking her French dictionary, as she doubted if her grandfather had one.She ought to put in a "Botany," if they were to study trees; but shecould not tell which, so she would take all there were. She might aswell take all her dresses, and it was no harm if one had too many wraps.When she had her trunk packed, she found it over-full; it was difficultto shut it. She had heard Solomon John set out from the front door withhis father and the little boys, and Agamemnon was busy holding the horseat the side door, so there was no use in calling for help. She got uponthe trunk; she jumped upon it; she sat down upon it, and, leaning over,found she could lock it! Yes, it was really locked.But, on getting down from the trunk, she found her dress had been caughtin the lid; she could not move away from it! What was worse, she was sofastened to the trunk that she could not lean forward far enough toturn the key back, to unlock the trunk and release herself! The lock hadslipped easily, but she could not now get hold of the key in the rightway to turn it back.She tried to pull her dress away. No, it was caught too firmly. Shecalled for help to her mother or Amanda, to come and open the trunk. Buther door was shut.Nobody near enough to hear! She tried to pull the trunk toward the door,to open it and make herself heard; but it was so heavy that, in herconstrained position, she could not stir it. In her agony, shewould have been willing to have torn her dress; but it was hertravelling-dress, and too stout to tear. She might cut it carefully.Alas, she had packed her scissors, and her knife she had lent to thelittle boys the day before! She called again. What silence there was inthe house! Her voice seemed to echo through the room. At length, as shelistened, she heard the sound of wheels.Was it the carriage, rolling away from the side door? Did she hear thefront door shut? She remembered then that Amanda was to "have the day."But she, Elizabeth Eliza, was to have spoken to Amanda, to explain toher to wait for the expressman. She was to have told her as she wentdownstairs. But she had not been able to go downstairs! And Amanda musthave supposed that all the family had left, and she, too, must havegone, knowing of the expressman. Yes, she heard the wheels! She heardthe front door shut!But could they have gone without her? Then she recalled that she hadproposed walking on a little way with Solomon John and her father, to bepicked up by Mrs. Peterkin, if she should have finished her packing intime. Her mother must have supposed that she had done so,--that shehad spoken to Amanda, and started with the rest. Well, she would soondiscover her mistake. She would overtake the walking party, and, notfinding Elizabeth Eliza, would return for her. Patience only was needed.She had looked around for something to read; but she had packed up allher books. She had packed her knitting. How quiet and still it was! Shetried to imagine where her mother would meet the rest of the family.They were good walkers, and they might have reached the two-mile bridge.But suppose they should stop for water beneath the arch of the bridge,as they often did, and the carryall pass over it without seeing them,her mother would not know but she was with them? And suppose her mothershould decide to leave the horse at the place proposed for stoppingand waiting for the first pedestrian party, and herself walk on, noone would be left to tell the rest, when they should come up to thecarryall. They might go on so, through the whole journey, withoutmeeting, and she might not be missed till they should reach hergrandfather's!Horrible thought! She would be left here alone all day. The expressmanwould come, but the expressman would go, for he would not be able to getinto the house!She thought of the terrible story of Ginevra, of the bride who was shutup in her trunk, and forever! She was shut up on hers, and knew notwhen she should be released! She had acted once in the ballad of the"Mistletoe Bough." She had been one of the "guests," who had sung "Oh,the Mistletoe Bough," and had looked up at it, and she had seen at theside-scenes how the bride had laughingly stepped into the trunk. But thetrunk then was only a make-believe of some boards in front of a sofa,and this was a stern reality.It would be late now before her family would reach her grandfather's.Perhaps they would decide to spend the night. Perhaps they would fancyshe was coming by express. She gave another tremendous effort to movethe trunk toward the door.In vain. All was still.Meanwhile, Mrs. Peterkin sat some time at the door, wondering whyElizabeth Eliza did not come down. Mr. Peterkin had started on withSolomon John and all the little boys. Agamemnon had packed the thingsinto the carriage,--a basket of lunch, a change of shoes for Mr.Peterkin, some extra wraps,--everything Mrs.Peterkin could think of, for the family comfort. Still Elizabeth Elizadid not come. "I think she must have walked on with your father," shesaid, at last; "you had better get in." Agamemnon now got in. "I shouldthink she would have mentioned it," she continued; "but we may as wellstart on, and pick her up!"They started off. "I hope Elizabeth Eliza thought to speak to Amanda,but we must ask her when we come up with her."But they did not come up with Elizabeth Eliza. At the turn beyond thevillage, they found an envelope struck up in an inviting manner againsta tree. In this way, they had agreed to leave missives for each other asthey passed on. This note informed them that the walking party was goingto take the short cut across the meadows, and would still be in frontof them. They saw the party at last, just beyond the short cut; but Mr.Peterkin was explaining the character of the oak-tree to his children asthey stood around a large specimen."I suppose he is telling them that it is some kind of a 'Quercus,'" saidAgamemnon, thoughtfully.Mrs. Peterkin thought Mr. Peterkin would scarcely use such anexpression, but she could see nothing of Elizabeth Eliza. Some of theparty, however, were behind the tree, some were in front, and ElizabethEliza might be behind the tree. They were too far off to be shouted at.Mrs. Peterkin was calmed, and went on to the stopping-lace agreed upon,which they reached before long. This had been appointed near FarmerGordon's barn, that there might be somebody at hand whom they knew, incase there should be any difficulty in untying the horse. The plan hadbeen that Mrs. Peterkin should always sit in the carriage, while theothers should take turns for walking; and Agamemnon tied the horse to afence, and left her comfortably arranged with her knitting. Indeed, shehad risen so early to prepare for the alphabetical breakfast, and hadsince been so tired with preparations, that she was quite sleepy, andwould not object to a nape in the shade, by the soothing sound of thebuzzing of the flies. But she called Agamemnon back, as he started offfor his solitary walk, with a perplexing question:"Suppose the rest all should arrive, how could they now be accommodatedin the carryall? It would be too much for the horse! Why had ElizabethEliza gone with the rest without counting up? Of course, they must haveexpected that she--Mrs. Peterkin--would walk on to the next stopping-place!"She decided there was no way but for her to walk on. When the restpassed her, they might make a change. So she put up knitting cheerfully.It was a little joggly in the carriage, she had already found, forthe horse was restless from the flies, and she did not like being leftalone.She walked on then with Agamemnon. It was very pleasant at first, butthe sun became hot, and it was not long before she was fatigued. Whenthey reached a hay-field, she proposed going in to rest upon one of thehay-cocks. The largest and most shady was at the other end of the field,and they were seated there when the carryall passed them in the road.Mrs. Peterkin waved parasol and hat, and the party in the carryallreturned their greetings, but they were too far apart to hear eachother.Mrs. Peterkin and Agamemnon slowly resumed their walk."Well, we shall find Elizabeth Eliza in the carryall," she said, "andthat will explain all."But it took them an hour or two to reach the carryall, with frequentstoppings for rest, and when they reached it, no one was in it. A notewas pinned up in the vehicle to say they had all walked on; it was"prime fun."In this way the parties continued to dodge each other, for Mrs. Peterkinfelt that she must walk on from the next station, and the carryallmissed her again while she and Agamemnon stopped in a house to rest, andfor a glass of water.She reached the carryall to find again that no one was in it. The partyhad passed on for the last station, where it had been decided all shouldmeet at the foot of grandfather's hill, that they might all arrive atthe house together.Mrs. Peterkin and Agamemnon looked out eagerly for the party all theway, as Elizabeth Eliza must be tired by this time; but Mrs. Peterkin'slast walk had been so slow, that the other party was far in advance andreached the stopping-place before them. The little boys were all rowedout on the stone fence, awaiting them, full of delight at having reachedgrandfather's. Mr.Peterkin came forward to meet them, and, at the same moment with Mrs.Peterkin, exclaimed: "Where is Elizabeth Eliza?" Each party lookedeagerly at the other; no Elizabeth Eliza was to be seen. Where was she?What was to be done? Was she left behind? Mrs. Peterkin was convincedshe must have somehow got to grandfather's. They hurried up the hill.Grandfather and all the family came out to greet them, for they had beenseen approaching. There was great questioning, but no Elizabeth Eliza!It was sunset; the view was wide and fine. Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin stoodand looked out from the north to the south. Was it too late to send backfor Elizabeth Eliza? Where was she?Meanwhile the little boys had been informing the family of the objectof their visit, and while Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin were looking up and downthe road, and Agamemnon and Solomon John were explaining to each otherthe details of their journeys, they had discovered some facts."We shall have to go back," they exclaimed. "We are too late! Themaple-syrup was all made last spring.""We are too early; we shall have to stay two or three months,--the cideris not made till October."The expedition was a failure! They could study the making of neithermaple-syrup nor cider, and Elizabeth Eliza was lost, perhaps forever!The sun went down, and Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin still stood to look up anddown the road.... Elizabeth Eliza meanwhile, had sat upon her trunk, as itseemed for ages. She recalled all the terrible stories of prisoners,--howthey had watched the growth of flowers through cracks in the pavement.She wondered how long she could live without eating. How thankful shewas for her abundant breakfast!At length she heard the door-bell. But who could go to the door toanswer it? In vain did she make another effort to escape; it wasimpossible!How singular!--there were footsteps. Some one was going to the door; someone had opened it. "They must be burglars." Well, perhaps that was abetter fate--to be gagged by burglars, and the neighbors informed--thanto be forever locked on her trunk. The steps approached the door. Itopened, and Amanda ushered in the expressman.Amanda had not gone. She had gathered, while waiting at thebreakfast-table, that there was to be an expressman whom she mustreceive.Elizabeth Eliza explained the situation. The expressman turned the keyof her trunk, and she was released!What should she do next? So long a time had elapsed, she had given upall hope of her family returning for her. But how could she reach them?She hastily prevailed upon the expressman to take her along until sheshould come up with some of the family. At least she would fall in witheither the walking party or the carryall, or she would meet them if theywere on their return.She mounted the seat with the expressman, and slowly they took theirway, stopping for occasional parcels as they left the village.But much to Elizabeth Eliza's dismay, they turned off from the main roadon leaving the village. She remonstrated, but the driver insisted hemust go round by Millikin's to leave a bedstead. They went roundby Millikin's, and then had further turns to make. Elizabeth Elizaexplained that in this way it would be impossible for her to find herparents and family, and at last he proposed to take her all the way withher trunk. She remembered with a shudder that when she had first askedabout her trunk, he had promised it should certainly be delivered thenext morning. Suppose they should have to be out all night? Where didexpress-carts spend the night? She thought of herself in a lone wood,in an express-wagon! She could hardly bring herself to ask, beforeassenting, when he should arrive."He guessed he could bring up before night."And so it happened that as Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin in the late sunsetwere looking down the hill, wondering what they should do about the lostElizabeth Eliza, they saw an express wagon approaching. A female formsat upon the front seat."She has decided to come by express," said Mrs. Peterkin. "It is--itis--Elizabeth Eliza!"THE PETERKINS AT THE "CARNIVAL OF AUTHORS" IN BOSTON.THE Peterkins were in quite a muddle (for them) about the carnivalof authors, to be given in Boston. As soon as it was announced, theirinterests were excited, and they determined that all the family shouldgo.But they conceived a wrong idea of the entertainment, as they supposedthat every one must go in costume. Elizabeth Eliza thought theirlessons in the foreign languages would help them much in conversing incharacter.As the carnival was announced early Solomon John thought there would betime to read up everything written by all the authors, in order to beacquainted with the characters they introduced. Mrs. Peterkin did notwish to begin too early upon the reading, for she was sure she shouldforget all that the different authors had written before the day came.But Elizabeth Eliza declared that she should hardly have time enough,as it was, to be acquainted with all the authors. She had given up herFrench lessons, after taking six, for want of time, and had, indeed,concluded she had learned in them all she should need to know of thatlanguage. She could repeat one or two pages of phrases, and she wasastonished to find how much she could understand already of what theFrench teacher said to her; and he assured her that when she went toParis she could at least ask the price of gloves, or of some otherthings she would need, and he taught her, too, how to pronounce"gar?on," in calling for more.Agamemnon thought that different members of the family might makethemselves familiar with different authors; the little boys were alreadyacquainted with "Mother Goose." Mr. Peterkin had read the "PickwickPapers," and Solomon John had actually seen Mr. Longfellow getting intoa horse-car.Elizabeth Eliza suggested that they might ask the Turk to give lecturesupon the "Arabian Nights." Everybody else was planning something of thesort, to "raise funds" for some purpose, and she was sure they ought notto be behindhand. Mrs.Peterkin approved of this. It would be excellent if they could raisefunds enough to pay for their own tickets to the carnival; then theycould go every night.Elizabeth Eliza was uncertain. She thought it was usual to use the fundsfor some object. Mr. Peterkin said that if they gained funds enough theymight arrange a booth of their own, and sit in it, and take the carnivalcomfortably.But Agamemnon reminded him that none of the family were authors, andonly authors had booths. Solomon John, indeed, had once started uponwriting a book, but he was not able to think of anything to put in it,and nothing had occurred to him yet.Mr. Peterkin urged him to make one more effort. If his book could comeout before the carnival he could go as an author, and might have a boothof his own, and take his family.But Agamemnon declared it would take years to become an author. Youmight indeed publish something, but you had to make sure that it wouldbe read. Mrs.Peterkin, on the other hand, was certain that libraries were filled withbooks that never were read, yet authors had written them. For herself,she had not read half the books in their own library. And she was gladthere was to be a Carnival of Authors, that she might know who theywere.Mr. Peterkin did not understand why they called them a "Carnival"; buthe supposed they should find out when they went to it.Mrs. Peterkin still felt uncertain about costumes. She proposed lookingover the old trunks in the garret. They would find some suitabledresses there, and these would suggest what characters they should take.Elizabeth Eliza was pleased with this thought. She remembered an oldturban of white mull muslin, in an old bandbox, and why should not hermother wear it?Mrs. Peterkin supposed that she should then go as her own grandmother.Agamemnon did not approve of this. Turbans are now worn in the East, andMrs.Peterkin could go in some Eastern character. Solomon John thought shemight be Cleopatra, and this was determined on. Among the treasuresfound were some old bonnets, of large size, with waving plumes.Elizabeth Eliza decided upon the largest of these.She was tempted to appear as Mrs. Columbus, as Solomon John was to takethe character of Christopher Columbus; but he was planning to enterupon the stage in a boat, and Elizabeth Eliza was a little afraid ofsea-sickness, as he had arranged to be a great while finding the shore.Solomon John had been led to take this character by discovering acoal-hod that would answer for a helmet; then, as Christopher Columbuswas born in Genoa, he could use the phrases in Italian he had latelylearned of his teacher.As the day approached the family had their costumes prepared.Mr. Peterkin decided to be Peter the Great. It seemed to him a happythought, for the few words of Russian he had learned would come in play,and he was quite sure that his own family name made him kin to that ofthe great Czar. He studied up the life in the Encyclop?dia, and decidedto take the costume of a ship-builder. He visited the navy-yard andsome of the docks; but none of them gave him the true idea of dress forship-building in Holland or St. Petersburg.But he found a picture of Peter the Great, representing him in abroad-brimmed hat. So he assumed one that he found at a costumer's,and with Elizabeth Eliza's black waterproof was satisfied with his ownappearance.Elizabeth Eliza wondered if she could not go with her father in someRussian character. She would have to lay aside her large bonnet, but shehad seen pictures of Russian ladies, with fur muffs on their heads, andshe might wear her own muff.Mrs. Peterkin, as Cleopatra, wore the turban, with a little row of falsecurls in front, and a white embroidered muslin shawl crossed over herblack silk dress. The little boys thought she looked much like thepicture of their great-grandmother. But doubtless Cleopatra resembledthis picture, as it was all so long ago, so the rest of the familydecided.Agamemnon determined to go as Noah. The costume, as represented in oneof the little boys' arks, was simple. His father's red-lined dressinggown, turned inside out, permitted it easily.Elizabeth Eliza was now anxious to be Mrs. Shem, and make a long dressof yellow flannel, and appear with Agamemnon and the little boys. Forthe little boys were to represent two doves and a raven. There werefeather-dusters enough in the family for their costumes, which would bethen complete with their india-rubber boots.Solomon John carried out in detail his idea of Christopher Columbus.He had a number of eggs boiled hard to take in his pocket, proposing torepeat, through the evening, the scene of setting the egg on its end.He gave up the plan of a boat, as it must be difficult to carry one intotown; so he contented himself by practising the motion of landing bystepping up on a chair.But what scene could Elizabeth Eliza carry out? If they had an ark, asMrs. Shem she might crawl in and out of the roof constantly, if it werenot too high. But Mr. Peterkin thought it as difficult to take an arkinto town as Solomon John's boat.The evening came. But with all their preparations they got to the halllate. The entrance was filled with a crowd of people, and, as theystopped at the cloakroom, to leave their wraps, they found themselvesentangled with a number of people in costume coming out from adressing-room below. Mr. Peterkin was much encouraged. They were thusjoining the performers. The band was playing the "Wedding March" as theywent upstairs to a door of the hall which opened upon one side of thestage. Here a procession was marching up the steps of the stage, all incostume, and entering behind the scenes."We are just in the right time," whispered Mr. Peterkin to his family;"they are going upon the stage; we must fall into line." The little boyshad their feather-dusters ready. Some words from one of the managersmade Peterkin understand the situation."We are going to be introduced to Mr. Dickens," he said."I thought he was dead!" exclaimed Mrs. Peterkin trembling."Authors live forever!" said Agamemnon in her ear.At this moment they were ushered upon the stage. The stage managerglared at them, as he awaited their names for introduction, while theycame up all unannounced,--a part of the programme not expected. But heuttered the words upon his lips, "Great Expectations;" and the Peterkinfamily swept across the stage with the rest: Mr. Peterkin costumed asPeter the Great, Mrs. Peterkin as Cleopatra, Agamemnon as Noah, SolomonJohn as Christopher Columbus, Elizabeth Eliza in yellow flannel as Mrs.Shem, with a large, old-fashioned bonnet on her head as Mrs. Columbus,and the little boys behind as two doves and a raven.Across the stage, in face of all the assembled people, then followingthe rest down the stairs on the other side, in among the audience, theywent; but into an audience not dressed in costume!There were Ann Maria Bromwick and the Osbornes,--all the neighbors,--allas natural as though they were walking the streets at home, though AnnMaria did wear white gloves."I had no idea you were to appear in character," said Ann Maria toElizabeth Eliza; "to what booth do you belong?""We are no particular author," said Mr. Peterkin."Ah, I see, a sort of varieties' booth," said Mr. Osborne."What is your character?" asked Ann Maria of Elizabeth Eliza."I have not quite decided," said Elizabeth Eliza. "I thought I shouldfind out after I came here. The marshal called us 'Great Expectations.'"Mrs. Peterkin was at the summit of bliss. "I have shaken hands withDickens!" she exclaimed.But she looked round to ask the little boys if they, too, had shakenhands with the great man, but not a little boy could she find.They had been swept off in Mother Goose's train, which had lingered onthe steps to see the Dickens reception, with which the procession ofcharacters in costume had closed. At this moment they were dancinground the barberry bush, in a corner of the balcony in Mother Goose'squarters, their feather-dusters gayly waving in the air.But Mrs. Peterkin, far below, could not see this, and consoled herselfwith the thought, they should all meet on the stage in the grand closingtableau. She was bewildered by the crowds which swept her hither andthither. At last she found herself in the Whittier Booth, and sat a longtime calmly there. As Cleopatra she seemed out of place, but as her owngrandmother she answered well with its New England scenery.Solomon John wandered about, landing in America whenever he found achance to enter a booth. Once before an admiring audience he set up hisegg in the centre of the Goethe Booth, which had been deserted by itscommittee for the larger stage.Agamemnon frequently stood in the background of scenes in the ArabianNights.It was with difficulty that the family could be repressed from goingon the stage whenever the bugle sounded for the different groupsrepresented there.Elizabeth Eliza came near appearing in the "Dream of Fair Women," at itsmost culminating point.Mr. Peterkin found himself with the "Cricket on the Hearth," in theDickens Booth. He explained that he was Peter the Great, but always inthe Russian language, which was never understood.Elizabeth Eliza found herself, in turn, in all the booths. Every managerwas puzzled by her appearance, and would send her to some other, and shepassed along, always trying to explain that she had not yet decided uponher character.Mr. Peterkin came and took Cleopatra from the Whittier Booth."I cannot understand," he said, "why none of our friends are dressed incostume, and why we are.""I rather like it," said Elizabeth Eliza, "though I should be betterpleased if I could form a group with some one."The strains of the minuet began. Mrs. Peterkin was anxious to join theperformers. It was the dance of her youth.But she was delayed by one of the managers on the steps that led to thestage."I cannot understand this company," he said, distractedly."They cannot find their booth," said another."That is the case," said Mr. Peterkin, relieved to have it stated."Perhaps you had better pass into the corridor," said a polite marshal.They did this, and, walking across, found themselves in therefreshment-room."This is the booth for us," said Mr. Peterkin."Indeed it is," said Mrs. Peterkin, sinking into a chair, exhausted.At this moment two doves and a raven appeared,--the little boys, who hadbeen dancing eagerly in Mother Goose's establishment, and now came downfor ice-cream."I hardly know how to sit down," said Elizabeth Eliza, "for I am sureMrs. Shem never could. Still, as I do not know if I am Mrs. Shem, I willventure it."Happily, seats were to be found for all, and they were soon arranged ina row, calmly eating ice-cream."I think the truth is," said Mr. Peterkin, "that we represent historicalpeople, and we ought to have been fictitious characters in books. Thatis, I observe, what the others are. We shall know better another time.""If we only ever get home," said Mrs. Peterkin, "I shall not wish tocome again. It seems like being on the stage, sitting in a booth, and itis so bewildering, Elizabeth Eliza not knowing who she is, and goinground and round in this way.""I am afraid we shall never reach home," said Agamemnon, who had beensilent for some time; "we may have to spend the night here. I find Ihave lost our checks for our clothes in the cloak-room!""Spend the night in a booth, in Cleopatra's turban!" exclaimed Mrs.Peterkin."We should like to come every night," cried the little boys."But to spend the night," repeated Mrs. Peterkin."I conclude the Carnival keeps up all night," said Mr. Peterkin."But never to recover our cloaks," said Mrs. Peterkin; "could not thelittle boys look round for the checks on the floors?"She began to enumerate the many valuable things that they might neversee again.She had worn her large fur cape of stone-marten,--her grandmother's,--thatElizabeth Eliza had been urging her to have made into a foot-rug. Nowhow she wished she had! And there were Mr. Peterkin's new overshoes,and Agamemnon had brought an umbrella, and the little boys had theirmittens. Their india-rubber boots, fortunately, they had on, in thecharacter of birds. But Solomon John had worn a fur cap, and ElizabethEliza a muff. Should they lose all these valuables entirely, and go homein the cold without them? No, it would be better to wait till everybodyhad gone, and then look carefully over the floors for the checks; ifonly the little boys could know where Agamemnon had been, they werewilling to look. Mr. Peterkin was not sure as they would have time toreach the train.Still, they would need something to wear, and he could not tell thetime. He had not brought his watch. It was a Waltham watch, and hethought it would not be in character for Peter the Great to wear it.At this moment the strains of "Home, Sweet Home" were heard from theband, and people were seen preparing to go."All can go home, but we must stay," said Mrs. Peterkin, gloomily, asthe well-known strains floated in from the larger hall.A number of marshals came to the refreshment-room, looked at them,whispered to each other, as the Peterkins sat in a row."Can we do anything for you?" asked one at last. "Would you not like togo?" He seemed eager they should leave the room.Mr. Peterkin explained that they could not go, as they had lost thechecks for their wraps, and hoped to find their checks on the floor wheneverybody was gone. The marshal asked if they could not describewhat they had worn, in which case the loss of the checks was not soimportant, as the crowds had now almost left, and it would not bedifficult to identify their wraps. Mrs. Peterkin eagerly declared shecould describe every article.It was astonishing how the marshals hurried them through the quicklydeserted corridors, how gladly they recovered their garments! Mrs.Peterkin, indeed, was disturbed by the eagerness of the marshals; shefeared they had some pretext for getting the family out of the hall.Mrs. Peterkin was one of those who never consent to be forced toanything. She would not be compelled to go home, even with strains ofmusic. She whispered her suspicions to Mr. Peterkin; but Agamemnon camehastily up to announce the time, which he had learned from the clockin the large hall. They must leave directly if they wished to catch thelatest train, as there was barely time to reach it.Then, indeed, was Mrs. Peterkin ready to leave. If they should miss thetrain!If she should have to pass the night in the streets in her turban! Shewas the first to lead the way, and, panting, the family followed her,just in time to take the train as it was leaving the station.The excitement was not yet over. They found in the train many of theirfriends and neighbors, returning also from the Carnival; so they hadmany questions put to them which they were unable to answer. Still Mrs.Peterkin's turban was much admired, and indeed the whole appearanceof the family; so that they felt themselves much repaid for theirexertions.But more adventures awaited them. They left the train with theirfriends; but as Mrs. Peterkin and Elizabeth Eliza were very tired, theywalked very slowly, and Solomon John and the little boys were senton with the pass-key to open the door. They soon returned with thestartling intelligence that it was not the right key, and they could notget in. It was Mr. Peterkin's office-key; he had taken it by mistake, orhe might have dropped the house-key in the cloak-room of the Carnival."Must we go back?" sighed Mrs. Peterkin, in an exhausted voice. Morethan ever did Elizabeth Eliza regret that Agamemnon's invention in keyshad failed to secure a patent!It was impossible to get into the house, for Amanda had been allowed togo and spend the night with a friend, so there was no use in ringing,though the little boys had tried it."We can return to the station," said Mr. Peterkin; "the rooms will bewarm, on account of the midnight train. We can, at least, think what weshall do next."At the station was one of their neighbors, proposing to take the NewYork midnight train, for it was now after eleven, and the train wentthrough at half-past."I saw lights at the locksmith's over the way, as I passed," he said;"why do not you send over to the young man there? He can get your dooropen for you. I never would spend the night here."Solomon John went over to "the young man," who agreed to go up to thehouse as soon as he had closed the shop, fit a key, and open the door,and come back to them on his way home. Solomon John came back to thestation, for it was now cold and windy in the deserted streets. Thefamily made themselves as comfortable as possible by the stove, sendingSolomon John out occasionally to look for the young man. But somehowSolomon John missed him; the lights were out in the locksmith's shop, sohe followed along to the house, hoping to find him there.But he was not there! He came back to report. Perhaps the young man hadopened the door and gone on home. Solomon John and Agamemnon went backtogether, but they could not get in. Where was the young man? He hadlately come to town, and nobody knew where he lived, for on the returnof Solomon John and Agamemnon it had been proposed to go to the house ofthe young man. The night was wearing on.The midnight train had come and gone. The passengers who came and wentlooked with wonder at Mrs. Peterkin, nodding in her turban, as she satby the stove, on a corner of a long bench. At last the station-masterhad to leave, for a short rest. He felt obliged to lock up the station,but he promised to return at an early hour to release them."Of what use," said Elizabeth Eliza, "if we cannot even then get intoour own house?"Mr. Peterkin thought the matter appeared bad, if the locksmith had lefttown. He feared the young man might have gone in, and helped himself tospoons, and left.Only they should have seen him if he had taken the midnight train.Solomon John thought he appeared honest. Mr. Peterkin only ventured towhisper his suspicions, as he did not wish to arouse Mrs. Peterkin, whostill was nodding in the corner of the long bench.Morning did come at last. The family decided to go to their home;perhaps by some effort in the early daylight they might make anentrance.On the way they met with the night-policeman, returning from his beat.He stopped when he saw the family."Ah! that accounts," he said; "you were all out last night, and theburglars took occasion to make a raid on your house. I caught a livelyyoung man in the very act; box of tools in his hand! If I had been aminute late he would have made his way in"--The family then tried tointerrupt--to explain--"Where is he?" exclaimed Mr. Peterkin."Safe in the lock-up," answered the policeman."But he is the locksmith!" interrupted Solomon John."We have no key!" said Elizabeth Eliza; "if you have locked up thelocksmith we can never get in."The policeman looked from one to the other, smiling slightly when heunderstood the case."The locksmith!" he exclaimed; "he is a new fellow, and I did notrecognize him, and arrested him! Very well, I will go and let him out,that he may let you in!" and he hurried away, surprising the Peterkinfamily with what seemed like insulting screams of laughter."It seems to me a more serious case than it appears to him," said Mr.Peterkin.Mrs. Peterkin did not understand it at all. Had burglars entered thehouse? Did the policeman say they had taken spoons? And why did heappear so pleased? She was sure the old silver teapot was locked up inthe closet of their room. Slowly the family walked towards the house,and, almost as soon as they, the policeman appeared with the releasedlocksmith, and a few boys from the street, who happened to be out early.The locksmith was not in very good humor, and took ill the jokes of thepoliceman. Mr. Peterkin, fearing he might not consent to open the door,pressed into his hand a large sum of money. The door flew open; thefamily could go in.Amanda arrived at the same moment. There was hope of breakfast. Mrs.Peterkin staggered towards the stairs. "I shall never go to anothercarnival!" she exclaimed.THE PETERKINS AT THE FARM.YES, at last they had reached the seaside, after much talking anddeliberation, and summer after summer the journey had been constantlypostponed.But here they were at last, at the "Old Farm," so called, where seasideattractions had been praised in all the advertisements. And here theywere to meet the Sylvesters, who knew all about the place, cousins ofAnn Maria Bromwick. Elizabeth Eliza was astonished not to find themthere, though she had not expected Ann Maria to join them till the verynext day.Their preparations had been so elaborate that at one time the wholething had seemed hopeless; yet here they all were. Their trunks, to besure, had not arrived; but the wagon was to be sent back for them, and,wonderful to tell, they had all their hand-baggage safe.Agamemnon had brought his Portable Electrical Machine and Apparatus, andthe volumes of the Encyclop?dia that might tell him how to manage it,and Solomon John had his photograph camera. The little boys had usedtheir india-rubber boots as portmanteaux, filling them to the brim, andcarrying one in each hand,--a very convenient way for travelling theyconsidered it; but they found on arriving (when they wanted to put theirboots directly on for exploration round the house), that it was somewhatinconvenient to have to begin to unpack directly, and scarcely roomenough could be found for all the contents in the small chamber allottedto them.There was no room in the house for the electrical machine and camera.Elizabeth Eliza thought the other boarders were afraid of the machinegoing off; so an out-house was found for them, where Agamemnon andSolomon John could arrange them.Mrs. Peterkin was much pleased with the old-fashioned porch andlow-studded rooms, though the sleeping-rooms seemed a little stuffy atfirst.Mr. Peterkin was delighted with the admirable order in which the farmwas evidently kept. From the first moment he arrived he gave himselfto examining the well-stocked stables and barns, and the fields andvegetable gardens, which were shown to him by a highly intelligentperson, a Mr. Atwood, who devoted himself to explaining to Mr. Peterkinall the details of methods in the farming.The rest of the family were disturbed at being so far from the sea, whenthey found it would take nearly all the afternoon to reach the beach.The advertisements had surely stated that the "Old Farm" was directly onthe shore, and that sea-bathing would be exceedingly convenient; whichwas hardly the case if it took you an hour and a half to walk to it.Mr. Peterkin declared there were always such discrepancies between theadvertisements of seaside places and the actual facts; but he was morethan satisfied with the farm part, and was glad to remain and admire it,while the rest of the family went to find the beach, starting off in awagon large enough to accommodate them, Agamemnon driving the one horse.Solomon John had depended upon taking the photographs of the family ina row on the beach; but he decided not to take his camera out the firstafternoon.This was well, as the sun was already setting when they reached thebeach."If this wagon were not so shaky," said Mrs. Peterkin "we might driveover every morning for our bath. The road is very straight, and Isuppose Agamemnon can turn on the beach.""We should have to spend the whole day about it," said Solomon John, ina discouraged tone, "unless we can have a quicker horse.""Perhaps we should prefer that," said Elizabeth Eliza, a littlegloomily, "to staying at the house."She had been a little disturbed to find there were not more elegant andfashionable-looking boarders at the farm, and she was disappointed thatthe Sylvesters had not arrived, who would understand the ways of theplace. Yet, again, she was somewhat relieved, for if their trunks didnot come till the next day, as was feared, she should have nothing buther travelling dress to wear, which would certainly answer for to-night.She had been busy all the early summer in preparing her dresses forthis very watering-place, and, as far as appeared, she would hardly needthem, and was disappointed to have no chance to display them. But ofcourse, when the Sylvesters and Ann Maria came, all would be different;but they would surely be wasted on the two old ladies she had seen, andon the old men who had lounged about the porch; there surely was not agentleman among them.Agamemnon assured her she could not tell at the seaside, as gentlemenwore their exercise dress, and took a pride in going around in shockinghats and flannel suits. Doubtless they would be dressed for dinner ontheir return.On their arrival they had been shown to a room to have their meals bythemselves, and could not decide whether they were eating dinner orlunch. There was a variety of meat, vegetables, and pie, that might comeunder either name; but Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin were well pleased."I had no idea we should have really farm-fare," Mrs. Peterkin said. "Ihave not drunk such a tumbler of milk since I was young."Elizabeth Eliza concluded they ought not to judge from a first meal, asevidently their arrival had not been fully prepared for, in spite of thenumerous letters that had been exchanged.The little boys were, however, perfectly satisfied from the moment oftheir arrival, and one of them had stayed at the farm, declining to goto the beach, as he wished to admire the pigs, cows, and horses; and allthe way over to the beach the other little boys were hopping in and outof the wagon, which never went too fast, to pick long mullein-stalks,for whips to urge on the reluctant horse with, or to gatherhuckleberries, with which they were rejoiced to find the fields werefilled, although, as yet, the berries were very green.They wanted to stay longer on the beach, when they finally reached it;but Mrs.Peterkin and Elizabeth Eliza insisted upon turning directly back, as itwas not fair to be late to dinner the very first night.On the whole the party came back cheerful, yet hungry. They found thesame old men, in the same costume, standing against the porch."A little seedy, I should say," said Solomon John."Smoking pipes," said Agamemnon; "I believe that is the latest style.""The smell of their tobacco is not very agreeable," Mrs. Peterkin wasforced to say.There seemed the same uncertainty on their arrival as to where they wereto be put, and as to their meals.Elizabeth Eliza tried to get into conversation with the old ladies, whowere wandering in and out of a small sitting-room. But one of them wasvery deaf, and the other seemed to be a foreigner. She discovered froma moderately tidy maid, by the name of Martha, who seemed a sort offactotum, that there were other ladies in their rooms, too much ofinvalids to appear."Regular bed-ridden," Martha had described them, which Elizabeth Elizadid not consider respectful.Mr. Peterkin appeared coming down the slope of the hill behind thehouse, very cheerful. He had made the tour of the farm, and found it inadmirable order.Elizabeth Eliza felt it time to ask Martha about the next meal, andventured to call it supper, as a sort of compromise between dinner andtea. If dinner were expected she might offend by taking it for grantedthat it was to be "tea," and if they were unused to a late dinner theymight be disturbed if they had only provided a "tea."So she asked what was the usual hour for supper, and was surprised whenMartha replied, "The lady must say," nodding to Mrs. Peterkin. "She canhave it just when she wants, and just what she wants!"This was an unexpected courtesy.Elizabeth Eliza asked when the others had their supper."Oh, they took it a long time ago," Martha answered. "If the lady willgo out into the kitchen she can tell what she wants.""Bring us in what you have," said Mr. Peterkin, himself quite hungry."If you could cook us a fresh slice of beefsteak that would be well.""Perhaps some eggs," murmured Mrs. Peterkin."Scrambled," cried one of the little boys."Fried potatoes would not be bad," suggested Agamemnon."Couldn't we have some onions?" asked the little boy who had stayedat home, and had noticed the odor of onions when the others had theirsupper."A pie would come in well," said Solomon John."And some stewed cherries," said the other little boy.Martha fell to laying the table, and the family was much pleased, when,in the course of time, all the dishes they had recommended appeared.Their appetites were admirable, and they pronounced the food the same."This is true Arab hospitality," said Mr. Peterkin, as he cut his juicybeefsteak."I know it," said Elizabeth Eliza, whose spirits began to rise. "We havenot even seen the host and hostess."She would, indeed, have been glad to find some one to tell her when theSylvesters were expected, and why they had not arrived. Her room was inthe wing, far from that of Mr. and Mrs. Peterkin, and near the aged deafand foreign ladies, and she was kept awake for some time by perplexedthoughts.She was sure the lady from Philadelphia, under such circumstances, wouldhave written to somebody. But ought she to write to Ann Maria or theSylvesters? And, if she did write, which had she better write to? Shefully determined to write, the first thing in the morning, to bothparties. But how should she address her letters? Would there be any usein sending to the Sylvesters' usual address, which she knew well by thistime, merely to say they had not come? Of course the Sylvesters wouldknow they had not come. It would be the same with Ann Maria.She might, indeed, inclose her letters to their several postmasters.Postmasters were always so obliging, and always knew where people weregoing to, and where to send their letters. She might, at least, writetwo letters, to say that they--the Peterkins--had arrived, and weredisappointed not to find the Sylvesters. And she could add that theirtrunks had not arrived, and perhaps their friends might look out forthem on their way. It really seemed a good plan to write. Yetanother question came up, as to how she would get her letters to thepost-office, as she had already learned it was at quite a distance, andin a different direction from the station, where they were to send thenext day for their trunks.She went over and over these same questions, kept awake by the coughingand talking of her neighbors, the other side of the thin partition.She was scarcely sorry to be aroused from her uncomfortable sleep by themorning sounds of guinea-hens, peacocks, and every other kind of fowl.Mrs. Peterkin expressed her satisfaction at the early breakfast, anddeclared she was delighted with such genuine farm sounds.They passed the day much as the afternoon before, reaching the beachonly in time to turn round to come back for their dinner, which wasappointed at noon.Mrs. Peterkin was quite satisfied. "Such a straight road, and the beachsuch a safe place to turn round upon!"Elizabeth Eliza was not so well pleased. A wagon had been sent to thestation for their trunks, which could not be found; they were probablyleft at the Boston station, or, Mr. Atwood suggested, might have beenswitched off upon one of the White Mountain trains. There was no use towrite any letters, as there was no way to send them. Elizabeth Eliza nowalmost hoped the Sylvesters would not come, for what should she do ifthe trunks did not come and all her new dresses? On her way over to thebeach she had been thinking what she should do with her new foulard andcream-colored surah if the Sylvesters did not come, and if their timewas spent in only driving to the beach and back. But now, she wouldprefer that the Sylvesters would not come till the dresses and thetrunks did. All she could find out, from inquiry, on returning,was, "that another lot was expected on Saturday." The next day shesuggested:--"Suppose we take our dinner with us to the beach, and spendthe day." The Sylvesters and Ann Maria then would find them on thebeach, where her travelling-dress would be quite appropriate. "I am alittle tired," she added, "of going back and forward over the same road;but when the rest come we can vary it."The plan was agreed to, but Mr. Peterkin and the little boys remained togo over the farm again.They had an excellent picnic on the beach, under the shadow of a ledgeof sand.They were just putting up their things when they saw a party of peopleapproaching from the other end of the beach."I am glad to see some pleasant-looking people at last," said ElizabethEliza, and they all turned to walk toward them.As the other party drew near she recognized Ann Maria Bromwick! And withher were the Sylvesters,--so they proved to be, for she had never seenthem before."What! you have come in our absence!" exclaimed Elizabeth Eliza."And we have been wondering what had become of you!" cried Ann Maria."I thought you would be at the farm before us," said Elizabeth Eliza toMr.Sylvester, to whom she was introduced."We have been looking for you at the farm," he was saying to her."But we are at the farm," said Elizabeth Eliza."And so are we!" said Ann Maria."We have been there two days," said Mrs. Peterkin."And so have we, at the 'Old Farm,' just at the end of the beach," saidAnn Maria."Our farm is old enough," said Solomon John."Whereabouts are you?" asked Mr. Sylvester.Elizabeth Eliza pointed to the road they had come.A smile came over Mr. Sylvester's face; he knew the country well."You mean the farm-house behind the hill, at the end of the road?" heasked.The Peterkins all nodded affirmatively.Ann Maria could not restrain herself, as broad smiles came over thefaces of all the party."Why, that is the Poor-house!" she exclaimed."The town farm," Mr. Sylvester explained, deprecatingly.The Peterkins were silent for a while. The Sylvesters tried not tolaugh."There certainly were some disagreeable old men and women there!" saidElizabeth Eliza, at last."But we have surely been made very comfortable," Mrs. Peterkin declared."A very simple mistake," said Mr. Sylvester, continuing his amusement."Your trunks arrived all right at the 'Old Farm,' two days ago.""Let us go back directly," said Elizabeth Eliza."As directly as our horse will allow," said Agamemnon.Mr. Sylvester helped them into the wagon. "Your rooms are awaiting you,"he said. "Why not come with us?""We want to find Mr. Peterkin before we do anything else," said Mrs.Peterkin.They rode back in silence, till Elizabeth Eliza said, "Do you supposethey took us for paupers?""We have not seen any 'they,'" said Solomon John, "except Mr. Atwood."At the entrance of the farm-yard Mr. Peterkin met them."I have been looking for you," he said. "I have just made a discovery.""We have made it, too," said Elizabeth Eliza; "we are in thepoor-house.""How did you find it out?" Mrs. Peterkin asked of Mr. Peterkin."Mr. Atwood came to me, puzzled with a telegram that had been brought tohim from the station, which he ought to have got two days ago. It camefrom a Mr. Peters, whom they were expecting here this week, with hiswife and boys, to take charge of the establishment. He telegraphed tosay he cannot come till Friday. Now, Mr. Atwood had supposed we were thePeterses, whom he had sent for the day we arrived, not having receivedthis telegram.""Oh, I see, I see!" said Mrs. Peterkin; "and we did get into a muddle atthe station!"Mr. Atwood met them at the porch. "I beg pardon," he said. "I hope youhave found it comfortable here, and shall be glad to have you stay tillMr. Peters' family comes."At this moment wheels were heard. Mr. Sylvester had arrived, with anopen wagon, to take the Peterkins to the "Old Farm."Martha was waiting within the door, and said to Elizabeth Eliza, "Begpardon, miss, for thinking you was one of the inmates, and putting youin that room. We thought it so kind of Mrs. Peters to take you off everyday with the other gentlemen, that looked so wandering."Elizabeth Eliza did not know whether to laugh or to cry.Mr. Peterkin and the little boys decided to stay at the farm tillFriday. But Agamemnon and Solomon John preferred to leave with Mr.Sylvester, and to take their electrical machine and camera when theycame for Mr. Peterkin.Mrs. Peterkin was tempted to stay another night, to be wakened once moreby the guinea-hens. But Elizabeth Eliza bore her off. There was not muchpacking to be done. She shouted good-by into the ears of the deaf oldlady, and waved her hand to the foreign one, and glad to bid farewell tothe old men with their pipes, leaning against the porch."This time," she said, "it is not our trunks that were lost""But we, as a family," said Mrs. Peterkin.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Peterkin Papers, by Lucretia P. Hale*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PETERKIN PAPERS ******** This file should be named 3028-8.txt or 3028-8.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/0/2/3028/Produced by David ReedUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's Foul Play, by Charles Reade and Dion BoucicaultThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Foul PlayAuthor: Charles Reade        Dion BoucicaultPosting Date: January 26, 2009 [EBook #3702]Release Date: February, 2003Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FOUL PLAY ***Produced by James Rusk.  HTML version by Al Haines.[Transcriber's note:  Italics are indicated by theunderscore character (_). Accent marks are ignored.]FOUL PLAY.byCharles Reade and Dion BoucicaultCHAPTER I.THERE are places which appear, at first sight, inaccessible to romance;and such a place was Mr. Wardlaw's dining-room in Russell Square. It wasvery large, had sickly green walls, picked out with aldermen, fulllength; heavy maroon curtains; mahogany chairs; a turkey carpet an inchthick: and was lighted with wax candles only.In the center, bristling and gleaming with silver and glass, was a roundtable, at which fourteen could have dined comfortably; and at oppositesides of this table sat two gentlemen, who looked as neat, grave,precise, and unromantic, as the place: Merchant Wardlaw, and his son.Wardlaw senior was an elderly man, tall, thin, iron-gray, with a roundhead, a short, thick neck, a good, brown eye, a square jowl thatbetokened resolution, and a complexion so sallow as to be almostcadaverous. Hard as iron: but a certain stiff dignity and respectabilitysat upon him, and became him.Arthur Wardlaw resembled his father in figure, but his mother in face. Hehad, and has, hay-colored hair, a forehead singularly white and delicate,pale blue eyes, largish ears, finely chiseled features, the under lipmuch shorter than the upper; his chin oval and pretty, but somewhatreceding; his complexion beautiful. In short, what nineteen people out oftwenty would call a handsome young man, and think they had described him.Both the Wardlaws were in full dress, according to the invariable customof the house; and sat in a dead silence, that seemed natural to the greatsober room.This, however, was not for want of a topic; on the contrary, they had amatter of great importance to discuss, and in fact this was why theydined _tete-a-tete._ But their tongues were tied for the present; in thefirst place, there stood in the middle of the table an epergne, the sizeof a Putney laurel-tree; neither Wardlaw could well see the other,without craning out his neck like a rifleman from behind his tree; andthen there were three live suppressors of confidential intercourse, twogorgeous footmen and a somber, sublime, and, in one word, episcopal,butler; all three went about as softly as cats after a robin, andconjured one plate away, and smoothly insinuated another, and seemedmodels of grave discretion: but were known to be all ears, and bound by asecret oath to carry down each crumb of dialogue to the servants' hall,for curious dissection and boisterous ridicule.At last, however, those three smug hypocrites retired, and, by good luck,transferred their suffocating epergne to the sideboard; so then fatherand son looked at one another with that conscious air which naturallyprecedes a topic of interest; and Wardlaw senior invited his son to try acertain decanter of rare old port, by way of preliminary.While the young man fills his glass, hurl we in his antecedents.At school till fifteen, and then clerk in his father's office tilltwenty-two, and showed an aptitude so remarkable, that John Wardlaw, whowas getting tired, determined, sooner or later, to put the reins ofgovernment into his hands. But he conceived a desire that the future headof his office should be a university man. So he announced his resolution,and to Oxford went young Wardlaw, though he had not looked at Greek orLatin for seven years. He was, however, furnished with a private tutor,under whom he recovered lost ground rapidly. The Reverend Robert Penfoldwas a first-class man, and had the gift of teaching. The house of Wardlawhad peculiar claims on him, for he was the son of old Michael Penfold,Wardlaw's cashier; he learned from young Wardlaw the stake he was playingfor, and instead of merely giving him one hour's lecture per day, as hedid to his other pupils, he used to come to his rooms at all hours, andforce him to read, by reading with him. He also stood his friend in aserious emergency. Young Wardlaw, you must know, was blessed or cursedwith Mimicry; his powers in that way really seemed to have no limit, forhe could imitate any sound you liked with his voice, and any form withhis pen or pencil. Now, we promise you, he was one man under his father'seye, and another down at Oxford; so, one night, this gentleman, beingwarm with wine, opens his window, and, seeing a group of undergraduateschattering and smoking in the quadrangle, imitates the peculiar gratingtones of Mr. Champion, vice-president of the college, and gives themvarious reasons why they ought to disperse to their rooms and study."But, perhaps," says he, in conclusion, "you are too blind drunk to readBosh in crooked letters by candle-light? In that case----"And he then gave them some very naughty advice how to pass the evening;still in the exact tones of Mr. Champion, who was a very, very strictmoralist; and this unexpected sally of wit caused shrieks of laughter,and mightily tickled all the hearers, except Champion ipse, who waslistening and disapproving at another window. He complained to thepresident. Then the ingenious Wardlaw, not having come down to us in adirect line from Bayard, committed a great mistake--he denied it.It was brought home to him, and the president, who had laughed in hissleeve at the practical joke, looked very grave at the falsehood;Rustication was talked of and even Expulsion. Then Wardlaw camesorrowfully to Penfold, and said to him, "I must have been awfully cut,for I don't remember all that; I had been wining at Christchurch. I doremember slanging the fellows, but how can I tell what I said? I say, oldfellow, it will be a bad job for me if they expel me, or even rusticateme; my father will never forgive me; I shall be his clerk, but never hispartner; and then he will find out what a lot I owe down here. I'm donefor! I'm done for!"Penfold uttered not a word, but grasped his hand, and went off to thepresident, and said his pupil had wined at Christchurch, and could not beexpected to remember minutely. Mimicry was, unfortunately, a habit withhim. He then pleaded for the milder construction with such zeal andeloquence that the high-minded scholar he was addressing admitted thatconstruction was _possible,_ and therefore must be received. So theaffair ended in a written apology to Mr. Champion which had all thesmoothness and neatness of a merchant's letter. Arthur Wardlaw wasalready a master in that style.Six months after this, and one fortnight before the actual commencementof our tale, Arthur Wardlaw, well crammed by Penfold, went up for hisfinal examination, throbbing with anxiety. He passed; and was so gratefulto his tutor that, when the advowson of a small living near Oxford cameinto the market, he asked Wardlaw senior to lend Robert Penfold a sum ofmoney, much more than was needed. And Wardlaw senior declined without amoment's hesitation.This slight sketch will serve as a key to the dialogue it has postponed,and to subsequent incidents."Well, Arthur, and so you have really taken your degree?""No, sir; but I have passed my examination. The degree follows as amatter of course--that is a mere question of fees.""Oh! Then now I have something to say to you. Try one more glass of the'47 port. Stop; you'll excuse me; I am a man of business; I don't doubtyour word; Heaven forbid! but, do you happen to have any document you canproduce, in further confirmation of what you state; namely, that you havepassed your final examination at the University?""Certainly, sir;" replied young Wardlaw. "My Testamur.""What is that?"The young gentleman put his hand in his pocket and produced his Testamur,or "We bear witness"; a short printed document in Latin, which may bethus translated:"We bear witness that Arthur Wardlaw, of St. Luke's College, has answeredour questions in humane letters.  "GEORGE RICHARDSON,  "ARTHUR SMYTHE,  "EDWARD MERIVALE,  _"Examiners."_Wardlaw senior took it, laid it beside him on the table, inspected itwith his double eye-glass, and, not knowing a word of Latin, was mightilyimpressed, and his respect for his son rose forty or forty-five per cent."Very well, sir," said he. "Now listen to me. Perhaps it was an old man'sfancy; but I have often seen in the world what a stamp these universitiesput upon a man. To send you back from commerce to Latin and Greek, attwo-and-twenty, was trying you rather hard; it was trying you doubly;your obedience, and your ability into the bargain. Well, sir, you havestood the trial, and I am proud of you. And so now it is my turn. Fromthis day and from this hour look on yourself as my partner in the oldestablished house of Wardlaw. My balance-sheet shall be preparedimmediately, and the partnership deed drawn. You will enter on aflourishing concern, sir; and you will virtually conduct it, in writtencommunication with me; for I have had five-and-forty years of it; andthen my liver, you know! Watson advises me strongly to leave my desk, andtry country air, and rest from business and its cares."He paused a moment; and the young man drew a long breath, like one whowas in the act of being relieved of some terrible weight.As for the old gentleman, he was not observing his son just then, butthinking of his own career; a certain expression of pain and regret cameover his features; but he shook it off with manly dignity. "Come, come,"said he, "this is the law of Nature, and must be submitted to with a goodgrace. Wardlaw junior, fill your glass." At the same time he stood up andsaid, stoutly, "The setting sun drinks to the rising sun;" but could notmaintain that artificial style, and ended with, "God bless you, my boy,and may you stick to business; avoid speculation, as I have done; and sohand the concern down healthy to your son, as my father there (pointingto a picture) handed it down to me, and I to you."His voice wavered slightly in uttering this benediction; but only for amoment. He then sat quietly down, and sipped his wine composedly.Not so the other. His color came and went violently all the time hisfather was speaking, and, when he ceased, he sank into his chair withanother sigh deeper than the last, and two half-hysterical tears came tohis pale eyes.But presently, feeling he was expected to say something, he struggledagainst all this mysterious emotion, and faltered out that he should notfear the responsibility, if he might have constant recourse to his fatherfor advice."Why, of course," was the reply. "My country house is but a mile from thestation. You can telegraph for me in any case of importance.""When would you wish me to commence my new duties?""Let me see, it will take six weeks to prepare a balance-sheet, such as Icould be content to submit to an incoming partner. Say two months."Young Wardlaw's countenance fell."Meantime you shall travel on the Continent and enjoy yourself.""Thank you," said young Wardlaw, mechanically, and fell into a brownstudy.The room now returned to what seemed its natural state. And its silencecontinued until it was broken from without.A sharp knocking was heard at the street door, and resounded across themarble hall.The Wardlaws looked at one another in some little surprise."I have invited nobody," said the elder. Some time elapsed, and then afootman made his appearance and brought in a card."Mr. Christopher Adams."Now that Mr. Christopher Adams should call on John Wardlaw, in hisprivate room, at nine o'clock in the evening, seemed to that merchantirregular, presumptuous and monstrous. "Tell him he will find me at myplace of business to-morrow, as usual," said he, knitting his brows.The footman went off with this message; and, soon after, raised voiceswere heard in the hall, and the episcopal butler entered the room with aninjured countenance."He says he _must_ see you; he is in great anxiety.""Yes, I am in great anxiety," said a quavering voice at his, elbow; andMr. Adams actually pushed by the butler, and stood, hat in hand, in thosesacred precincts. "'Pray excuse me, sir," said he, "but it is veryserious; I can't be easy in my mind till I have put you a question.""This is very extraordinary conduct, sir," said Mr. Wardlaw. "Do youthink I do business here, and at all hours?""Oh, no, sir. It is my own business. I am come to ask you a very seriousquestion. I couldn't wait till morning with such a doubt on my mind.""Well, sir, I repeat this is irregular and extraordinary; but as you arehere, pray what is the matter?" He then dismissed the lingering butlerwith a look. Mr. Adams cast uneasy glances on young Wardlaw."Oh," said the elder, "you can speak before him. This is my partner; thatis to say, he will be as soon as the balance-sheet can be prepared andthe deed drawn. Wardlaw junior, this is Mr. Adams, a very respectablebill discounter."The two men bowed to each other, and Arthur Wardlaw sat down motionless."Sir, did you draw a note of hand to-day?" inquired Adams of the eldermerchant."I dare say I did. Did you discount one signed by me?""Yes, sir, we did.""Well, sir, you have only to present it at maturity. Wardlaw & Son willprovide for it, I dare say." This with the lofty nonchalance of a richman who had never broken an engagement in his life."Ah, that I know they will if it is all right; but suppose it is not?""What d'ye mean?" asked Wardlaw, with some astonishment."Oh, nothing, sir! It bears your signature, that is good for twenty timesthe amount; and it is indorsed by your cashier. Only what makes me alittle uneasy, your bills used to be always on your own forms, and so Itold my partner; he discounted it. Gentlemen, I wish you would just lookat it.""Of course we will look at it. Show it Arthur first; his eyes are youngerthan mine."Mr. Adams took out a large bill-book, extracted the note of hand, andpassed it across the table to Wardlaw junior. He took it up with a sortof shiver, and bent his head very low over it; then handed it back insilence.Adams took it to Wardlaw senior and laid it before him by the side ofArthur's Testamur.The merchant inspected it with his glasses."The writing is mine, apparently.""I am very glad of it," said the bill-broker, eagerly."Stop a bit," said Mr. Wardlaw. "Why, what is this? For two thousandpounds! and, as you say, not my form. I have signed no note for twothousand pounds this week. Dated yesterday. You have not cashed it, Ihope?""I am sorry to say my partner has.""Well, sir, not to keep you in suspense, the thing is not worth the stampit is written on.""Mr. Wardlaw!--Sir!--Good heavens! Then it is as I feared. It is aforgery.""I should be puzzled to find any other name for it. You need not look sopale, Arthur. We can't help some clever scoundrel imitating our hands;and as for you, Adams, you ought to have been more cautious.""But, sir, your cashier's name is Penfold," faltered the holder, clingingto a straw. "May he not have drawn--is the indorsement forged as well?"Mr. Wardlaw examined the back of the bill, and looked puzzled. "No," saidhe. "My cashier's name is Michael Penfold, but this is indorsed 'RobertPenfold.' Do you hear, Arthur? Why, what is the matter with you? You looklike a ghost. I say there is your tutor's name at the back of this forgednote. That is very strange. Just look, and tell me who wrote these twowords 'Robert Penfold'?"Young Wardlaw took the document and tried to examine it calmly, but itshook visibly in his hand, and a cold moisture gathered on his brow. Hispale eyes roved to and fro in a very remarkable way; and he was so longbefore he said anything that both the other persons present began to eyehim with wonder.At last he faltered out, "This 'Robert Penfold' seems to me very like hisown handwriting. But then the rest of the writing is equally like yours,sir. I am sure Robert Penfold never did anything wrong. Mr. Adams, pleaseoblige _me._ Let this go no further till I have seen him, and asked himwhether he indorsed it.""Now don't you be in a hurry," said the elder Wardlaw. "The firstquestion is, who received the money?"Mr. Adams replied that it was a respectable-looking man, a youngclergyman."Ah!" said Wardlaw, with a world of meaning."Father!" said young Wardlaw, imploringly, "for my sake, say no moreto-night. Robert Penfold is incapable of a dishonest act.""It becomes your years to think so, young man. But I have lived longenough to see what crimes respectable men are betrayed into in the hourof temptation. And, now I think of it, this Robert Penfold is in want ofmoney. Did he not ask me for a loan of two thousand pounds? Was not thatthe very sum? Can't you answer me? Why, the application came throughyou."Receiving no reply from his son, but a sort of agonized stare, he tookout his pencil and wrote down Robert Penfold's address. This he handedthe bill-broker, and gave him some advice in a whisper, which Mr.Christopher Adams received with a profusion of thanks, and bustled away,leaving Wardlaw senior excited and indignant, Wardlaw junior ghastly paleand almost stupefied.Scarcely a word was spoken for some minutes, and then the younger manbroke out suddenly: "Robert Penfold is the best friend I ever had; Ishould have been expelled but for him, and I should never have earnedthat Testamur but for him."The old merchant interrupted him. "You exaggerate. But, to tell thetruth, I am sorry now I did not lend him the money you asked for. For,mark my words, in a moment of temptation that miserable young man hasforged my name, and will be convicted of the felony and punishedaccordingly.""No, no. Oh, God forbid!" shrieked young Wardlaw. "I couldn't bear it. Ifhe did, he must have intended to replace it. I must see him; I will seehim directly." He got up all in a hurry, and was going to Penfold to warnhim, and get him out of the way till the money should be replaced. Buthis father started up at the same moment and forbade him, in accents thathe had never yet been able to resist."Sit down, sir, this instant," said the old man, with terrible sternness."Sit down, I say, or you will never be a partner of mine. Justice musttake its course. What business and what right have we to protect a felon?I would not take your part if you were one. Indeed it is too late now,for the detectives will be with him before you could reach him. I gaveAdams his address."At this last piece of information Wardlaw junior leaned his head on thetable and groaned aloud, and a cold perspiration gathered in beads uponhis white forehead.CHAPTER II.THAT same evening sat over their tea, in Norfolk Street, Strand, anothercouple, who were also father and son; but, in this pair, the Wardlawswere reversed. Michael Penfold was a reverend, gentle creature, withwhite hair, blue eyes and great timidity; why, if a stranger put to him aquestion he used to look all round the room before he ventured to answer.Robert, his son, was a young man with a large brown eye, a mellow voice,square shoulders and a prompt and vigorous manner. Cricketer. Scholar.Parson.They were talking hopefully together over a living Robert was going tobuy. It was near Oxford, he said, and would not prevent his continuing totake pupils. "But, father," said he, "it will be a place to take my wifeto if I ever have one; and, meantime, I hope you will run down now andthen, Saturday to Monday.""That I will, Robert. Ah! how proud _she_ would have been to hear youpreach; it was always her dream, poor thing.""Let us think she _can_ hear me," said Robert. "And I have got _you_still; the proceeds of this living will help me to lodge you morecomfortably.""You are very good, Robert. I would rather see you spend it uponyourself; but, dear me, what a manager you must be to dress sobeautifully as you do, and send your old father presents as you do, andyet put by fourteen hundred pounds to buy this living.""You are mistaken, sir, I have only saved four hundred; the oddthousand-- But that is a secret for the present.""Oh, I am not inquisitive. I never was."They then chatted about things of no importance whatever, and the oldgentleman was just lighting his candle to go to bed, when a visitor wasushered into the room.The Penfolds looked a little surprised, but not much. They had no streetdoor all to themselves; no liveried dragons to interpose between them andunseasonable or unwelcome visitors.The man was well dressed, with one exception; he wore a gold chain. Hehad a hooked nose, and a black, piercing eye. He stood at the door andobserved every person and thing in the room minutely before he spoke aword.Then he said, quietly, "Mr. Michael Penfold, I believe.""At your service, sir."And Mr. Robert Penfold.""I am Robert Penfold. What is your business?""Pray is the 'Robert Penfold' at the back of this note your writing?""Certainly it is; they would not cash it without that.""Oh, you got the money, then?""Of course I did.""You have not parted with it, have you?""No.""All the better." He then turned to Michael and looked at him earnestly amoment. "The fact is, sir," said he, "there is a little irregularityabout this bill which must be explained, or your son might be called onto refund the cash.""'Irregularity about--a bill?" cried Michael Penfold, in dismay "Who isthe drawer? Let me see it. Oh, dear me, something wrong about a billindorsed by you, Robert?" and the old man began to shake piteously."Why, father," said Robert, "what are you afraid of? If the bill isirregular I can but return the money. It is in the house.""The best way will be for Mr. Robert Penfold to go at once with me to thebill-broker; he lives but a few doors off. And you, sir, must stay hereand be responsible for the funds, till we return."Robert Penfold took his hat directly, and went off with this mysteriousvisitor.They had not gone many steps, when Robert's companion stopped, and,getting in front of him, said, "We can settle this matter here." At thesame time a policeman crossed the way and joined them; and another man,who was, in fact, a policeman in plain clothes, emerged from a doorwayand stood at Robert Penfold's back.The detective, having thus surrounded him, threw off his disguise. "Myman," said he, "I ought to have done this job in your house. But I lookedat the worthy old gentleman and his gray hairs. I thought I'd spare himall I could. I have a warrant to arrest you for forgery!""Forgery! arrest me for forgery!" said Robert Penfold, with someamazement, but little emotion; for he hardly seemed to take it in, in allits horrible significance.The next moment, however, he turned pale, and almost staggered under theblow."We had better go to Mr. Wardlaw," said he. "I entreat you to go to himwith me.""Can't be done," said the detective. "Wardlaw has nothing to do with it.The bill is stopped. You are arrested by the gent that cashed it. Here isthe warrant; will you go quietly with us, or must I put the darbies on?"Robert was violently agitated. "There is no need to arrest me," he cried;"I shall not run from my accuser. Hands off, I say. I'm a clergyman ofthe Church of England, and you shall not lay hands on me."But one of the policemen did lay hands on him. Then the Reverend RobertPenfold shook him furiously off, and, with one active bound, sprang intothe middle of the road.The officers went at him incautiously, and the head detective, as herushed forward, received a heavy blow on the neck and jaw that soundedalong the street, and sent him rolling in the mud; this was followed by aquick succession of staggering facers, administered right and left on theeyes and noses of the subordinates. These, however, though bruised andbleeding, succeeded at last in grappling their man, and all came to theground together, and there struggled furiously; every window in thestreet was open by this time, and at one the white hair and reverend faceof Michael Penfold looked out on this desperate and unseemly strugglewith hands that beat the air in helpless agony and inarticulate cries ofterror.The detective got up and sat upon Robert Penfold's chest; and at last thethree forced the handcuffs upon him and took him in a cab to thestation-house.Next day, before the magistrate, Wardlaw senior proved the note was aforgery, and Mr. Adams's partner swore to the prisoner as the person whohad presented and indorsed the note. The officers attended, two withblack eyes apiece, and one with his jaw bound up, and two sound teeth inhis pocket, which had been driven from their sockets by the prisoner inhis desperate attempt to escape. Their evidence hurt the prisoner, andthe magistrate refused bail.The Reverend Robert Penfold was committed to prison, to be tried at theCentral Criminal Court on a charge of felony.Wardlaw senior returned home, and told Wardlaw junior, who said not aword. He soon received a letter from Robert Penfold, which agitated himgreatly, and he promised to go to the prison and see him.But he never went.He was very miserable, a prey to an inward struggle. He dared not offendhis father on the eve of being made partner. Yet his heart bled forRobert Penfold.He did what might perhaps have been expected from that pale eye andreceding chin--he temporized. He said to himself, "Before that horribletrial comes on, I shall be the house of Wardlaw, and able to draw a checkfor thousands. I'll buy off Adams at any price, and hush up the wholematter."So he hoped, and hoped. But the accountant was slow, the publicprosecutor unusually quick; and, to young Wardlaw's agony, thepartnership deed was not ready when an imploring letter was put into hishands, urging him, by all that men hold sacred, to attend at the court asthe prisoner's witness.This letter almost drove young Wardlaw mad. He went to Adams andentreated him not to carry the matter into court. But Adams wasinexorable. He had got his money, but would be revenged for the fright.Baffled here, young Wardlaw went down to Oxford and shut himself up inhis own room, a prey to fear and remorse. He sported his oak, and neverwent out. All his exercise was that of a wild beast in its den, walkingrestlessly up and down.But all his caution did not prevent the prisoner's solicitor from gettingto him. One morning, at seven o'clock, a clerk slipped in at the heels ofhis scout, and, coming to young Wardlaw's bedside, awoke him out of anuneasy slumber by serving him with a subpoena to appear as RobertPenfold's witness.This last stroke finished him. His bodily health gave way under hismental distress. Gastric fever set in, and he was lying tossing andraving in delirium, while Robert Penfold was being tried at the CentralCriminal Court.The trial occupied six hours, and could easily be made ratherinteresting. But, for various reasons, with which it would not be goodtaste to trouble the reader, we decide to skim it.The indictment contained two counts; one for forging the note of hand,the other for uttering it knowing it to be forged.On the first count, the Crown was weak, and had to encounter the evidenceof Undercliff, the distinguished expert, who swore that the hand whichwrote "Robert Penfold" was not, in his opinion, the hand that had writtenthe body of the instrument. He gave many minute reasons in support ofthis. And nothing of any weight was advanced contra. The judge directedthe jury to acquit the prisoner on that count.But, on the charge of uttering, the evidence was clear, and on thequestion of knowledge it was, perhaps, a disadvantage to the prisonerthat he was tried in England, and could not be heard in person, as hecould have been in a foreign court; above all, his resistance to theofficers eked out the presumption that he knew the note had been forgedby some person or other, who was probably his accomplice.The absence of his witness, Wardlaw junior, was severely commented on byhis counsel; indeed, he appealed to the judge to commit the said Wardlawfor contempt of court. But Wardlaw senior was recalled, and swore that hehad left his son in a burning fever, not expected to live. And declared,with genuine emotion, that nothing but a high sense of public duty hadbrought _him_ hither from his dying son's bedside. He also told the courtthat Arthur's inability to clear his friend had really been the firstcause of his illness, from which he was not expected to recover.The jury consulted together a long time; and, at last, brought in averdict of "GUILTY"; but recommended him to mercy on grounds which mightfairly have been alleged in favor of his innocence; but, if guilty,rather aggravated his crime.Then an officer of the court inquired, in a sort of chant or recitative,whether the prisoner had anything to say why judgment should not be givenin accordance with the verdict.It is easy to divest words of their meaning by false intonation; andprisoners in general receive this bit of singsong in dead silence. Forwhy? the chant conveys no idea to their ears, and they would as soonthink of _replying_ to the notes of a cuckoo.But the Reverend Robert Penfold was in a keen agony that sharpened allhis senses; he caught the sense of the words in spite of the speaker, andclung wildly to the straw that monotonous machine held out. "My lord! mylord!" he cried, "I'll tell you the real reason why young Wardlaw is nothere."The judge put up his hand with a gesture that enforced silence."Prisoner," said he, "I cannot go back to facts; the jury have dealt withthem. Judgment can be arrested only on grounds of law. On these you canbe heard. But, if you have none to offer, you must be silent and submitto your sentence." He then, without a pause, proceeded to point out theheinous character of the offense, but admitted there was one mitigatingcircumstance; and, in conclusion, he condemned the culprit to five years'penal servitude.At this the poor wretch uttered a cry of anguish that was fearful, andclutched the dock convulsively.Now a prisoner rarely speaks to a judge without revolting him by bad law,or bad logic, or hot words. But this wild cry was innocent of all these,and went straight from the heart in the dock to the heart on the judgmentseat. And so his lordship's voice trembled for a moment, and then becamefirm again, but solemn and humane."But," said he, "my experience tells me this is your first crime, and maypossibly be your last. I shall therefore use my influence that you maynot be associated with more hardened criminals, but may be sent out ofthis country to another, where you may begin life afresh, and, in thecourse of years, efface this dreadful stain. Give me hopes of you; beginyour repentance where now you stand, by blaming yourself, and no otherman. No man constrained you to utter a forged note, and to receive themoney; it was found in your possession. For such an act there can be nodefense in law, morality, or religion."These words overpowered the culprit. He burst out crying with greatviolence.But it did not last long. He became strangely composed all of a sudden;and said, "God forgive all concerned in this--but one--but one."He then bowed respectfully, and like a gentleman, to the judge and thejury, and walked out of the dock with the air of a man who had partedwith emotion, and would march to the gallows now without flinching.The counsel for the Crown required that the forged document should beimpounded."I was about to make the same demand," said the prisoner's counsel.The judge snubbed them both, and said it was a matter of course.Robert Penfold spent a year in separate confinement, and then, to curehim of its salutary effect (if any), was sent on board the hulk_Vengeance,_ and was herded with the greatest miscreants in creation.They did not reduce him to their level, but they injured his mind. And,before half his sentence had expired, he sailed for a penal colony, a manwith a hot coal in his bosom, a creature imbittered, poisoned; hopinglittle, believing little, fearing little, and hating much.He took with him the prayer-book his mother had given him when he wasordained deacon. But he seldom read beyond the fly-leaf. There the poorlady had written at large her mother's heart, and her pious soul aspiringheavenward for her darling son. This, when all seemed darkest, he wouldsometimes run to with moist eyes. For he was sure of his mother's love,but almost doubted the justice of his God.CHAPTER III.MR. WARDLAW went down to his son and nursed him. He kept the newspapersfrom him, and, on his fever abating, had him conveyed by easy stages tothe seaside, and then sent him abroad.The young man obeyed in gloomy silence. He never asked after RobertPenfold, now; never mentioned his name. He seemed, somehow, thankful tobe controlled mind and body.But, before he had been abroad a month, he wrote for leave to return homeand to throw himself into business. There was, for once, a nervousimpatience in his letters, and his father, who pitied him deeply, and wasmore than ever inclined to reward and indulge him, yielded readilyenough; and, on his arrival, signed the partnership deed, and,Polonius-like, gave him much good counsel; then retired to his countryseat.At first he used to run up every three days, and examine the day-book andledger, and advise his junior; but these visits soon became fewer, and atlast he did little more than correspond occasionally.Arthur Wardlaw held the reins, and easily paid his Oxford debts out ofthe assets of the firm. Not being happy in his mind, he threw himselfinto commerce with feverish zeal, and very soon extended the operationsof the house.One of his first acts of authority was to send for Michael Penfold intohis room. Now poor old Michael, ever since his son's misfortune, as hecalled it, had crept to his desk like a culprit, expecting every day tobe discharged. When he received this summons he gave a sigh and wentslowly to the young merchant.Arthur Wardlaw looked up at his entrance, then looked down again, andsaid coldly, "Mr. Penfold, you have been a faithful servant to us manyyears; I raise your salary fifty pounds a year, and you will keep theledger."The old man was dumfounded at first, and then began to give vent to hissurprise and gratitude; but Wardlaw cut him short, almost fiercely."There, there, there," said he, without raising his eyes, "let me hear nomore about it, and, above all, never speak to me of that cursed business.It was no fault of yours, nor mine neither. There--go--I want no thanks.Do you hear? leave me, Mr. Penfold, if you please."The old man bowed low and retired, wondering much at his employer'sgoodness, and a little at his irritability.Wardlaw junior's whole soul was given to business night and day, and hesoon became known for a very ambitious and rising merchant. But, by andby, ambition had to encounter a rival in his heart. He fell in love;deeply in love; and with a worthy object.The young lady was the daughter of a distinguished officer, whose meritswere universally recognized, but not rewarded in proportion. Wardlaw'ssuit was favorably received by the father, and the daughter graduallyyielded to an attachment the warmth, sincerity and singleness of whichwere manifest. And the pair would have been married but for thecircumstance that her father (partly through Wardlaw's influence, by theby) had obtained a lucrative post abroad which it suited his means toaccept, at all events for a time. He was a widower, and his daughtercould not let him go alone.This temporary separation, if it postponed a marriage, led naturally to asolemn engagement; and Arthur Wardlaw enjoyed the happiness of writingand receiving affectionate letters by every foreign post. Love, worthilybestowed, shed its balm upon his heart, and, under its soft but powerfulcharm, he grew tranquil and complacent, and his character and temperseemed to improve. Such virtue is there in a pure attachment.Meanwhile the extent of his operations alarmed old Penfold; but he soonreasoned that worthy down with overpowering conclusions and superiorsmiles.He had been three years the ruling spirit of Wardlaw & Son, when somecurious events took place in another hemisphere; and in these events,which we are now to relate, Arthur Wardlaw was more nearly interestedthan may appear at first sight.Robert Penfold, in due course, applied to Lieutenant-General Rollestonfor a ticket of leave. That functionary thought the applicationpremature, the crime being so grave. He complained that the system hadbecome too lax, and for his part he seldom gave a ticket-of-leave untilsome suitable occupation was provided for the applicant. "Will anybodytake you as a clerk? If so, I'll see about it."Robert Penfold could find nobody to take him into a post of confidenceall at once, and wrote the general an eloquent letter, begging hard to beallowed to labor with his hands.Fortunately, General Rolleston's gardener had just turned him off; so heoffered the post to his eloquent correspondent, remarking that he did notmuch mind employing a ticket-of-leave man himself, though he was resolvedto protect his neighbors from their relapses.The convict then came to General Rolleston, and begged leave to enter onhis duties under the name of James Seaton. At that General Rollestonhem'd and haw'd, and took a note. But his final decision was as follows:"If you really mean to change your character, why, the name you havedisgraced might hang round your neck. Well, I'll give you every chance.But," said this old warrior, suddenly compressing his resolute lips justa little, "if you go a yard off the straight path _now,_ look for nomercy, Jemmy Seaton."So the convict was re-christened at the tail of a threat, and let looseamong the warrior's tulips.His appearance was changed as effectually as his name. Even before he wasSeatoned he had grown a silky mustache and beard of singular length andbeauty; and, what with these and his workingman's clothes, and his cheeksand neck tanned by the sun, our readers would never have recognized inthis hale, bearded laborer the pale prisoner that had trembled, raged,wept and submitted in the dock of the Central Criminal Court.Our universities cure men of doing things by halves, be the things mentalor muscular; so Seaton gardened much more zealously than his plebeianpredecessor: up at five, and did not leave till eight.But he was unpopular in the kitchen--because he was always out of it.Taciturn and bitter, he shunned his fellow-servants.Yet working among the flowers did him good; these his pretty companionsand nurslings had no vices.One day, as he was rolling the grass upon the lawn, he heard a softrustle at some distance, and, looking round, saw a young lady on thegravel path, whose calm but bright face, coming so suddenly, literallydazzled him. She had a clear cheek blooming with exercise, rich brownhair, smooth, glossy and abundant, and a very light hazel eye, ofsingular beauty and serenity. She glided along, tranquil as a goddess,smote him with beauty and perfume, and left him staring after herreceding figure, which was, in its way, as captivating as her face.She was walking up and down for exercise, briskly, but without effort.Once she passed within a few yards of him, and he touched his hat to her.She inclined her head gently, but her eyes did not rest an instant on hergardener; and so she passed and repassed, unconsciously sawing thissolitary heart with soft but penetrating thrills.At last she went indoors to luncheon, and the lawn seemed to miss thelight music of her rustling dress, and the sunshine of her presence, andthere was a painful void; but that passed, and a certain sense ofhappiness stole over James Seaton--an unreasonable joy, that often runsbefore folly and trouble.The young lady was Helen Rolleston, just returned home from a visit. Shewalked in the garden every day, and Seaton watched her, and peeped ather, unseen, behind trees and bushes. He fed his eyes and his heart uponher, and, by degrees, she became the sun of his solitary existence. Itwas madness; but its first effect was not unwholesome. The daily study ofthis creature, who, though by no means the angel he took her for, was atall events a pure and virtuous woman, soothed his sore heart, andcounteracted the demoralizing influence of his late companions. Every dayhe drank deeper of an insane but purifying and elevating passion.He avoided the kitchen still more; and that, by the by, was unlucky; forthere he could have learned something about Miss Helen Rolleston thatwould have warned him to keep at the other end of the garden wheneverthat charming face and form glided to and fro among the minor flowers.A beautiful face fires our imagination, and we see higher virtue andintelligence in it than we can detect in its owner's head or heart whenwe descend to calm inspection. James Seaton gazed on Miss Rolleston dayafter day, at so respectful a distance that she became his goddess. If aday passed without his seeing her, he was dejected. When she was behindher time, he was restless, anxious, and his work distasteful; and then,when she came out at last, he thrilled all over, and the lawn, ay, theworld itself, seemed to fill with sunshine. His adoration, timid by itsown nature, was doubly so by reason of his fallen and hopeless condition.He cut nosegays for her; but gave them to her maid Wilson for her. He hadnot the courage to offer them to herself.One evening, as he went home, a man addressed him familiarly, but in alow voice. Seaton looked at him attentively, and recognized him at last.It was a convict called Butt, who had come over in the ship with him. Theman offered him a glass of ale; Seaton declined it. Butt, a very cleverrogue, seemed hurt. So then Seaton assented reluctantly. Butt took him toa public house in a narrow street, and into a private room. Seatonstarted as soon as he entered, for there sat two repulsive ruffians, and,by a look that passed rapidly between them and Butt, he saw plainly thatthey were waiting for him. He felt nervous; the place was so uncouth anddark, the faces so villainous.However, they invited him to sit down, roughly, but with an air of goodfellowship; and very soon opened their business over their ale. We areall bound to assist our fellow-creatures, when it can be done withouttrouble; and what they asked of him was a simple act of courtesy, such asin their opinion no man worthy of the name could deny to his fellow. Itwas to give General Rolleston's watchdog a piece of prepared meat upon acertain evening. And, in return for this trifling civility, they weregenerous enough to offer him a full share of any light valuables theymight find in the general's house.Seaton trembled, and put his face in his hands a moment. "I cannot doit," said he."Why not?""He has been too good to me."A coarse laugh of derision greeted this argument; it seemed so irrelevantto these pure egotists. Seaton, however, persisted, and on that one ofthe men got up and stood before the door, and drew his knife gently.Seaton glanced his eyes round in search of a weapon, and turned pale."Do you mean to split on us, mate?" said one of the ruffians in front ofhim."No, I don't. But I won't rob my benefactor. You shall kill me first."And with that he darted to the fireplace, and in a moment the poker washigh in air, and the way he squared his shoulders and stood ready to hitto the on, or cut to the off, was a caution."Come, drop that," said Butt, grimly; "and put up _your_ knife, Bob.Can't a pal be out of a job, and yet not split on them that is in it!""Why should I split?" said Robert Penfold. "Has the law been a friend tome? But I won't rob my benefactor--and his daughter.""That is square enough," said Butt. "Why, pals, there are other cribs tobe cracked besides that old bloke's. Finish the ale, mate, and partfriends.""If you will promise me to crack some other crib, and let that onealone."A sullen assent was given, and Seaton drank their healths, and walkedaway. Butt followed him soon after, and affected to side with him, andintimated that he himself was capable of not robbing a man's house whohad been good to him, or to a pal of his. Indeed this plausible personsaid so much, and his sullen comrades had said so little, that Seaton,rendered keen and anxious by love, invested his savings in a Colt'srevolver and ammunition.He did not stop there; after the hint about the watch-dog, he would nottrust that faithful but too carnivorous animal; he brought his blanketsinto the little tool-house, and lay there every night in a sort of dog'ssleep. This tool-house was erected in a little back garden, separatedfrom the lawn only by some young trees in single file. Now MissRolleston's window looked out upon the lawn, so that Seaton's watchtowerwas not many yards from it; then, as the tool-house was only lighted fromabove, he bored a hole in the wooden structure, and through this hewatched, and slept, and watched. He used to sit studying theology by afarthing rushlight till the lady's bedtime, and then he watched for hershadow. If it appeared for a few moments on the blind, he gave a sigh ofcontent and went to sleep, but awaked every now and then to see that allwas well.After a few nights, his alarms naturally ceased, but his love increased,fed now from this new source, the sweet sense of being the secretprotector of her he adored.Meantime, Miss Rolleston's lady's maid, Wilson, fell in love with himafter her fashion; she had taken a fancy to his face at once, and he hadencouraged her a little, unintentionally; for he brought the nosegays toher, and listened complacently to her gossip, for the sake of the fewwords she let fall now and then about her young mistress. As he neverexchanged two sentences at a time with any other servant, this flatteredSarah Wilson, and she soon began to meet and accost him oftener, and incherrier-colored ribbons, than he could stand. So then he showedimpatience, and then she, reading him by herself, suspected some vulgarrival.Suspicion soon bred jealousy, jealousy vigilance, and vigilancedetection.Her first discovery was that, so long as she talked of Miss HelenRolleston, she was always welcome; her second was, that Seaton slept inthe tool-house.She was not romantic enough to connect her two discoveries together. Theylay apart in her mind, until circumstances we are about to relatesupplied a connecting link.One Thursday evening James Seaton's goddess sat alone with her papa,and--being a young lady of fair abilities, who had gone through hercourse of music and other studies, taught brainlessly, and who was nowgoing through a course of monotonous pleasures, and had not accumulatedany great store of mental resources--she was listless and languid, andwould have yawned forty times in her papa's face, only she was toowell-bred. She always turned her head away, when it came, and eithersuppressed it, or else hid it with a lovely white hand. At last, as shewas a good girl, she blushed at her behavior, and roused herself up, andsaid she, "Papa, shall I play you the new quadrilles?"Papa gave a start and a shake, and said, with well-feigned vehemence,"Ay, do, my dear," and so composed himself--to listen; and Helen sat downand played the quadrilles.The composer had taken immortal melodies, some gay, some sad, and hadrobbed them of their distinctive character and hashed them till they wereall one monotonous rattle. But General Rolleston was little the worse forall this. As Apollo saved Horace from hearing a poetaster's rhymes, sodid Somnus, another beneficent little deity, rescue our warrior from hisdaughter's music.She was neither angry nor surprised. A delicious smile illumined her facedirectly; she crept to him on tiptoe, and bestowed a kiss, light as azephyr, on his gray head. And, in truth, the bending attitude of thissupple figure, clad in snowy muslin, the virginal face and light hazeleyes beaming love and reverence, and the airy kiss, had somethingangelic.She took her candle, and glided up to her bedroom. And, the moment shegot there, and could gratify her somnolence without offense, need we sayshe became wide-awake? She sat down and wrote long letters to three otheryoung ladies, gushing affection, asking questions of the kind nobodyreplies to, painting, with a young lady's colors, the male being to whomshe was shortly to be married, wishing her dear friends a like demigod,if perchance earth contained two; and so to the last new bonnet andpreacher.She sat over her paper till one o'clock, and Seaton watched and adoredher shadow.When she had done writing, she opened her window and looked out upon thenight. She lifted those wonderful hazel eyes toward the stars, and herwatcher might well be pardoned if he saw in her a celestial being lookingup from an earthly resting place toward her native sky.At two o'clock she was in bed, but not asleep. She lay calmly gazing atthe Southern Cross and other lovely stars shining with vivid but chastefire in the purple vault of heaven.While thus employed she heard a slight sound outside that made her turnher eyes toward a young tree near her window. Its top branches werewaving a good deal, though there was not a breath stirring. This struckher as curious, very curious.While she wondered, suddenly an arm and a hand came in sight, and afterthem the whole figure of a man, going up the tree.Helen sat up now, glaring with terror, and was so paralyzed she did notutter a sound. About a foot below her window was a lead flat that roofedthe bay-window below. It covered an area of several feet, and the mansprang on to it with perfect ease from the tree. Helen shrieked withterror. At that very instant there was a flash, a pistol-shot, and theman's arms went whirling, and he staggered and fell over the edge of theflat, and struck the grass below with a heavy thud. Shots and blowsfollowed, and all the sounds of a bloody struggle rung in Helen's ears asshe flung herself screaming from the bed and darted to the door. She ranand clung quivering to her sleepy maid, Wilson. The house was alarmed,lights flashed, footsteps pattered, there was universal commotion.General Rolleston soon learned his daughter's story from Wilson, andaroused his male servants, one of whom was an old soldier. They searchedthe house first; but no entrance had been effected; so they went out onthe lawn with blunderbuss and pistol.They found a man lying on his back at the foot of the bay window.They pounced on him, and, to their amazement, it was the gardener, JamesSeaton. Insensible.General Rolleston was quite taken aback for a moment. Then he was sorry.But, after a little reflection, he said very sternly, "Carry theblackguard indoors; and run for an officer."Seaton was taken into the hall and laid flat on the floor.All the servants gathered about him, brimful of curiosity, and the femaleones began to speak all together; but General Rolleston told them sharplyto hold their tongues, and to retire behind the man. "Somebody sprinklehim with cold water," said he; "and be quiet, all of you, and keep out ofsight, while I examine him." He stood before the insensible figure withhis arms folded, amid a dead silence, broken only by the stifled sobs ofSarah Wilson, and of a sociable housemaid who cried with her for company.And now Seaton began to writhe and show signs of returning sense.Next he moaned piteously, and sighed. But General Rolleston could notpity him; he waited grimly for returning consciousness, to subject him toa merciless interrogatory.He waited just one second too long. He had to answer a question insteadof putting one.The judgment is the last faculty a man recovers when emerging frominsensibility; and Seaton, seeing the general standing before him,stretched out his hands, and said, in a faint, but earnest voice, beforeeleven witnesses, "Is she safe? Oh, is she safe?"CHAPTER IV.SARAH WILSON left off crying, and looked down on the ground with a veryred face. General Rolleston was amazed."Is she safe? Is who safe?" said he. "He means my mistress," repliedWilson, rather brusquely; and flounced out of the hall."She is safe, no thanks to you," said General Rolleston. "What were youdoing under her window at this time of night?" And the harsh tone inwhich this question was put showed Seaton he was suspected. This woundedhim, and he replied doggedly, "Lucky for you all I was there.""That is no answer to my question," said the general sternly."It is all the answer I shall give you.""Then I shall hand you over to the officer without another word.""Do, sir, do," said Seaton bitterly; but he added more gently, "you willbe sorry for it when you come to your senses."At this moment Wilson entered with a message. "If you please, sir, MissRolleston says the robber had no beard. Miss have never noticed Seaton'sface, but his beard she have; and, oh, if you please, sir, she begged meto ask him--Was it you that fired the pistol and shot the robber?"The delivery of this ungrammatical message, but rational query was like aray of light streaming into a dark place. It changed the whole aspect ofthings. As for Seaton, he received it as if Heaven was speaking to himthrough Wilson. His sullen air relaxed, the water stood in his eyes, hesmiled affectionately, and said in a low, tender voice, "Tell her I heardsome bad characters talking about this house--that was a month ago--soever since then I have slept in the tool-house to watch. Yes, I shot therobber with my revolver, and I marked one or two more; but they werethree to one; I think I must have got a blow on the head; for I feltnothing--"Here he was interrupted by a violent scream from Wilson. She pointeddownward, with her eyes glaring; and a little blood was seen to betrickling slowly over Seaton's stocking and shoe."Wounded," said the general's servant, Tom, in the business-like accentof one who had seen a thousand wounds."Oh, never mind that," said Seaton. "It can't be very deep, for I don'tfeel it;" then, fixing his eyes on General Rolleston, he said, in a voicethat broke down suddenly, "There stands the only man who has wounded meto-night, to hurt me."The way General Rolleston received this point-blank reproach surprisedsome persons present, who had observed only the imperious and iron sideof his character. He hung his head in silence a moment; then, beingdiscontented with himself, he went into a passion with his servants forstanding idle. "Run away, you women," said he roughly. "Now, Tom, if youare good for anything, strip the man and stanch his wound. Andrew, abottle of port, quick!"Then, leaving him for a while in friendly hands, he went to his daughterand asked her if she saw any objection to a bed being made up in thehouse for the wounded convict."Oh, papa," said she, "why, of course not. I am all gratitude. What is helike, Wilson? for it is a most provoking thing, I never noticed his face,only his beautiful beard glittering in the sunshine ever so far off. Pooryoung man! Oh, yes, papa! send him to bed directly, and we will all nursehim. I never did any good in the world yet, and so why not begin atonce?"General Rolleston laughed at this squirt of enthusiasm from his staiddaughter, and went off to give the requisite orders.But Wilson followed him immediately and stopped him in the passage."If you please, sir, I think you had better not. I have something to tellyou."She then communicated to him by degrees her suspicion that James Seatonwas in love with his daughter. He treated this with due ridicule atfirst; but she gave him one reason after another till she staggered him,and he went downstairs in a most mixed and puzzled frame of mind,inclined to laugh, inclined to be angry, inclined to be sorry.The officer had just arrived, and was looking over some photographs tosee if James Seaton was "one of his birds." Such, alas! was hisexpression.At sight of this, Rolleston colored up; but extricated himself from thedouble difficulty with some skill. "Hexham," said he, "this poor fellowhas behaved like a man, and got himself wounded in my service. You are totake him to the infirmary; but, mind, they must treat him like my ownson, and nothing he asks for be denied him."Seaton walked with feeble steps, and leaning on two men, to theinfirmary; and General Rolleston ordered a cup of coffee, lighted a cigarand sat cogitating over this strange business and asking himself how hecould get rid of this young madman and yet befriend him. As for SarahWilson, she went to bed discontented and wondering at her own badjudgment. She saw too late that if she had held her tongue Seaton wouldhave been her patient and her prisoner; and as for Miss Rolleston, whenit came to the point, why, she would never have nursed him except byproxy, and the proxy would have been Sarah Wilson.However, the blunder blind passion had led her into was partiallyrepaired by Miss Rolleston herself. When she heard, next day, whereSeaton was gone, she lifted up her hands in amazement. "What _could_ papabe thinking of to send our benefactor to a hospital?" And, aftermeditating awhile, she directed Wilson to cut a nosegay and carry it toSeaton. "He is a gardener;" said she innocently. "Of course he will misshis flowers sadly in that miserable place."And she gave the same order every day, with a constancy that, you mustknow, formed part of this young lady's character. Soup, wine and jellieswere sent from the kitchen every other day with equal pertinacity.Wilson concealed the true donor of all those things and took the creditto herself. By this means she obtained the patient's gratitude, and heshowed it so frankly she hoped to steal his love as well.But no! his fancy and his heart remained true to the cold beauty he hadserved so well, and she had forgotten him, apparently.This irritated Wilson at last, and she set to work to cure him withwholesome but bitter medicine. She sat down beside him one day, and saidcheerfully, "We are all _'on the keyfeet'_ just now. Miss Rolleston'sbeau is come on a visit."The patient opened his eyes with astonishment."Miss Rolleston's beau?""Ay, her intended. What, didn't you know, she is engaged to be married?""She engaged to be married?" gasped Seaton.Wilson watched him with a remorseless eye."Why, James," said she, after awhile, "did you think the likes of herwould go through the world without a mate?"Seaton made no reply but a moan, and lay back like one dead, utterlycrushed by this cruel blow.A buxom middle-aged nurse now came up and said, with a touch of severity,"Come, my good girl, no doubt you mean well, but you are doing ill. Youhad better leave him to us for the present."On this hint Wilson bounced out and left the patient to his misery.At her next visit she laid a nosegay on his bed and gossiped away,talking of everything in the world except Miss Rolleston.At last she came to a pause, and Seaton laid his hand on her armdirectly, and looking piteously in her face spoke his first word."Does she love him?""What, still harping on _her?"_ said Wilson. "Well, she doesn't hate him,I suppose, or she would not marry him.""For pity's sake don't trifle with me! Does she love him?""La, James, how can I tell? She mayn't love him quite as much as I couldlove a man that took my fancy" (here she cast a languishing glance onSeaton); "but I see no difference between her and other young ladies.Miss is very fond of her papa, for one thing; and he favors the match.Ay, and she likes her partner well enough. She is brighter like, now heis in the house, and she reads all her friends' letters to him ever solovingly; and I do notice she leans on him out walking, a trifle morethan there is any need for."At this picture James Seaton writhed in his bed like some agonizedcreature under vivisection; but the woman, spurred by jealousy, and alsoby egotistical passion, had no mercy left for him."And why not?" continued she; "he is young and handsome and rich and hedotes on her. If you are really her friend you ought to be glad she is sowell suited."At this admonition the tears stood in Seaton's eyes, and after awhile hegot strength to say, "I know I ought, I know it. If he is only worthy ofher, as worthy as any man could be.""That he is, James. Why, I'll be bound you have heard of him. It is youngMr. Wardlaw."Seaton started up in bed. "Who? Wardlaw? what Wardlaw?""What Wardlaw? why, the great London merchant, his son. Leastways hemanages the whole concern now, I hear; the old gentleman, he is retiredby all accounts.""CURSE HIM! CURSE HIM! CURSE HIM!" yelled James Seaton, with his eyesglaring fearfully and both hands beating the air.Sarah Wilson recoiled with alarm."That angel marry _him!"_ shrieked Seaton. "Never, while I live. I'llthrottle him with these hands first."What more his ungovernable fury would have uttered was interrupted by arush of nurses and attendants, and Wilson was bundled out of the placewith little ceremony.He contrived, however, to hurl a word after her, accompanied with a lookof concentrated rage and resolution."NEVER, I TELL YOU--WHILE I LIVE."At her next visit to the hospital Wilson was refused admission by orderof the head surgeon. She left her flowers daily all the same.After a few days she thought the matter might have cooled, and, having apiece of news to communicate to Seaton with respect to Arthur Wardlaw,she asked to see that patient."Left the hospital this morning," was the reply."What, cured?""Why not? We have cured worse cases than his.""Where has he gone to? Pray tell me.""Oh, certainly." And inquiry was made. But the reply was, "Left noaddress."Sarah Wilson, like many other women of high and low degree, had swiftmisgivings of mischief to come. She was taken with a fit of trembling,and had to sit down in the hall.And, to tell the truth, she had cause to tremble; for that tongue of hershad launched two wild beasts--Jealousy and Revenge.When she got better she went home, and, coward-like, said not a word toliving soul.That day, Arthur Wardlaw dined with General Rolleston and Helen. Theywere to be alone for a certain reason; and he came half an hour beforedinner. Helen thought he would, and was ready for him on the lawn.They walked arm-in-arm, talking of the happiness before them, andregretting a temporary separation that was to intervene. He was herfather's choice, and she loved her father devotedly; he was her maleproperty; and young ladies like that sort of property, especially whenthey see nothing to dislike in it. He loved her passionately, and thatwas her due, and pleased her and drew a gentle affection, if not apassion, from her in return. Yes, that lovely forehead did come very nearyoung Wardlaw's shoulder more than once or twice as they strolled slowlyup and down on the soft mossy turf.And, on the other side of the hedge that bounded the lawn, a man laycrouched in the ditch and saw it all with gleaming eyes.Just before the affianced ones went in, Helen said, "I have a littlefavor to ask you, dear. The poor man, Seaton, who fought the robbers andwas wounded--papa says he is a man of education, and wanted to be a clerkor something. _Could_ you find him a place?""I think I can," said Wardlaw; "indeed, I am sure. A line to White & Co.will do it; they want a shipping clerk.""Oh, how good you are!" said Helen; and lifted her face all beaming withthanks.The opportunity was tempting; the lover fond. Two faces met for a singlemoment, and one of the two burned for five minutes after.The basilisk eyes saw the soft collision; but the owner of those eyes didnot hear the words that earned him that torture. He lay still and bidedhis time.General Rolleston's house stood clear of the town at the end of a shortbut narrow and tortuous lane. This situation had tempted the burglarswhom Seaton baffled; and now it tempted Seaton.Wardlaw must pass that way on leaving General Rolleston's house.At a bend of the lane two twin elms stood out a foot or two from thehedge. Seaton got behind these at about ten o'clock and watched for himwith a patience and immobility that boded ill.His preparations for this encounter were singular. He had aclose-shutting inkstand and a pen, and one sheet of paper, at the top ofwhich he had written "Sydney," and the day of the month and year, leavingthe rest blank. And he had the revolver with which he had shot the robberat Helen Rolleston's window; and a barrel of that arm was loaded withswan shot.CHAPTER V.THE moon went down; the stars shone out clearer.Eleven o'clock boomed from a church clock in the town.Wardlaw did not come, and Seaton did not move from his ambush.Twelve o'clock boomed, and Wardlaw never came, and Seaton never moved.Soon after midnight General Rolleston's hall door opened, and a figureappeared in a flood of light. Seaton's eye gleamed at the light, for itwas young Wardlaw, with a footman at his back holding a lighted lamp.Wardlaw, however, seemed in no hurry to leave the house, and the reasonsoon appeared; he was joined by Helen Rolleston, and she was equipped forwalking. The watcher saw her serene face shine in the light. The generalhimself came next; and, as they left the door, out came Tom with ablunderbuss and brought up the rear. Seaton drew behind the trees, andpostponed, but did not resign, his purpose.Steps and murmurings came, and passed him, and receded.The only words he caught distinctly came from Wardlaw, as he passed. "Itis nearly high tide. I fear we must make haste."Seaton followed the whole party at a short distance, feeling sure theywould eventually separate and give him his opportunity with Wardlaw.They went down to the harbor and took a boat; Seaton came nearer, andlearned they were going on board the great steamer bound for England,that loomed so black, with monstrous eyes of fire.They put off, and Seaton stood baffled.Presently the black monster, with enormous eyes of fire, spouted hersteam like a Leviathan, and then was still; next the smoke puffed, theheavy paddles revolved, and she rushed out of the harbor; and Seaton satdown upon the ground, and all seemed ended. Helen gone to England!Wardlaw gone with her! Love and revenge had alike eluded him. He lookedup at the sky and played with the pebbles at his feet, stupidly,stupidly. He wondered why he was born; why he consented to live a singleminute after this. His angel and his demon gone home together! And heleft here!He wrote a few lines on the paper he had intended for Wardlaw, sprinkledthem with sand, and put them in his bosom, then stretched himself outwith a weary moan, like a dying dog, to wait the flow of the tide, and,with it, Death. Whether or not his resolution or his madness could havecarried him so far cannot be known, for even as the water rippled in,and, trickling under his back, chilled him to the bone, a silvery soundstruck his ear. He started to his feet, and life and its joys rushed backupon him. It was the voice of the woman he loved so madly.Helen Rolleston was on the water, coming ashore again in the little boat.He crawled, like a lizard, among the boats ashore to catch a sight ofher. He did see her, was near her, unseen himself. She landed with herfather. So Wardlaw was gone to England without her. Seaton trembled withjoy. Presently his goddess began to lament in the prettiest way. "Papa!papa!" she sighed, "why must friends part in this sad world? Poor Arthuris gone from me; and, by and by, I shall go from you, my own papa." Andat that prospect she wept gently."Why, you foolish child!" said the old general tenderly, "what matters alittle parting, when we are all to meet again in dear old England. Wellthen, there, have a cry; it will do you good." He patted her headtenderly as she clung to his warlike breast; and she took him at hisword; the tears ran swiftly and glistened in the very starlight.But, oh, how Seaton's heart yearned at all this!What? mustn't _he_ say a word to comfort her; he who, at that moment,would have thought no more of dying to serve her or to please her than hewould of throwing one of those pebbles into that slimy water.Well, her pure tears somehow cooled his hot brain, and washed his soul,and left him wondering at himself and his misdeeds this night. Hisguardian angel seemed to go by and wave her dewy wings, and fan his hotpassions as she passed.He kneeled down and thanked God he had not met Arthur Wardlaw in thatdark lane.Then he went home to his humble lodgings, and there buried himself; andfrom that day seldom went out, except to seek employment. He soonobtained it as a copyist.Meantime the police were on his track, employed by a person with a gentledisposition, but a tenacity of purpose truly remarkable.Great was Seaton's uneasiness when one day he saw Hexham at the foot ofhis stair; greater still, when the officer's quick eye caught sight ofhim, and his light foot ascended the stairs directly. He felt sure Hexhamhad heard of his lurking about General Rolleston's premises. However, heprepared to defend himself to the uttermost.Hexham came into his room without ceremony, and looking mighty grim."Well, my lad, so we have got you, after all.""What is my crime now?" asked Seaton sullenly."James," said the officer, very solemnly, "it is an unheard-of crime thistime. You have been running away from a pretty girl. Now that is amistake at all times; but, when she is as beautiful as an angel, and richenough to slip a flyer into Dick Hexham's hands, and lay him on yourtrack, what _is_ the use? Letter for _you,_ my man."Seaton took the letter, with a puzzled air. It was written in a clear butfeminine hand, and slightly scented.The writer, in a few polished lines, excused herself for takingextraordinary means to find Mr. Seaton; but hoped he would consider thathe had laid her under a deep obligation, and that gratitude willsometimes be importunate. She had the pleasure to inform him that theoffice of shipping clerk at Messrs. White & Co.'s was at his service, andshe hoped he would take it without an hour's further delay, for that shewas assured that many persons had risen to wealth and consideration inthe colony from such situations.Then, as this wary but courteous young lady had no wish to enter into acorrespondence with her ex-gardener, she added:"Mr. Seaton need not trouble himself to reply to this note. A simple'yes' to Mr. Hexham will be enough, and will give sincere pleasure to Mr.Seaton's"Obedient servant and well-wisher,"HELEN ANNE ROLLESTON."Seaton bowed his head over this letter in silent but deep emotion.Hexham respected that emotion, and watched him with a sort of vaguesympathy.Seaton lifted his head, and the tears stood thick in his eyes. Said he,in a voice of exquisite softness, scarce above a whisper, "Tell her,'yes' and 'God bless her.' Good-by. I want to go on my knees, and prayGod to bless her as she deserves. Good-by."Hexham took the hint and retired softly.CHAPTER VI.WHITE & CO. stumbled on a treasure in James Seaton. Your colonial clerkis not so narrow and apathetic as your London clerk, whose two objectsseem to be to learn one department only, and not to do too much in that;but Seaton, a gentleman and a scholar, eclipsed even colonial clerks inthis, that he omitted no opportunity of learning the whole business ofWhite & Co., and was also animated by a feverish zeal that now and thenprovoked laughter from clerks, but was agreeable as well as surprising toWhite & Co. Of that zeal his incurable passion was partly the cause.Fortunes had been made with great rapidity in Sydney; and Seaton nowconceived a wild hope of acquiring one, by some lucky hit, before Wardlawcould return to Helen Rolleston. And yet his common sense said, if I wasas rich as Croesus, how could she ever mate with me, a stained man? Andyet his burning heart said, don't listen to reason; listen only to me.Try.And so he worked double tides; and, in virtue of his universityeducation, had no snobbish notions about never putting his hand to manuallabor. He would lay down his pen at any moment and bear a hand to lift achest or roll a cask. Old White saw him thus multiply himself, and was sopleased that he raised his salary one third.He never saw Helen Rolleston, except on Sunday. On that day he went toher church, and sat half behind a pillar and feasted his eyes and hisheart upon her. He lived sparingly, saved money, bought a strip of landby payment of ten pounds deposit, and sold it in forty hours for onehundred pounds profit, and watched keenly for similar opportunities on alarger scale; and all for her. Struggling with a mountain; hoping againstreason, and the world.White & Co. were employed to ship a valuable cargo on board two vesselschartered by Wardlaw & Son; the _Shannon_ and _Proserpine._Both these ships lay in Sydney harbor, and had taken in the bulk of theircargoes; but the supplement was the cream; for Wardlaw in person hadwarehoused eighteen cases of gold dust and ingots, and fifty of lead andsmelted copper. They were all examined and branded by Mr. White, who hadduplicate keys of the gold cases. But the contents as a matter of habitand prudence were not described outside; but were marked _Proserpine_ and_Shannon,_ respectively; the mate of the _Proserpine,_ who was inWardlaw's confidence, had written instructions to look carefully to thestowage of all these cases, and was in and out of the store one afternoonjust before closing, and measured the cubic contents of the cases, with aview to stowage in the respective vessels. The last time he came heseemed rather the worse for liquor; and Seaton, who accompanied him,having stepped out for a minute for something or other, was rathersurprised on his return to find the door closed, and it struck him Mr.Wylie (that was the mate's name) might be inside; the more so as the doorclosed very easily with a spring bolt, but it could only be opened by akey of peculiar construction. Seaton took out his key, opened the door,and called to the mate, but received no reply. However, he took theprecaution to go round the store, and see whether Wylie, renderedsomnolent by liquor, might not be lying oblivious among the cases; Wylie,however, was not to be seen, and Seaton, finding himself alone, did anunwise thing; he came and contemplated Wardlaw's cases of metal andspecie. (Men will go too near the thing that causes their pain.) He eyedthem with grief and with desire, and could not restrain a sigh at thesematerial proofs of his rival's wealth--the wealth that probably hadsmoothed his way to General Rolleston's home and to his daughter's heart;for wealth can pave the way to hearts, ay, even to hearts that cannot bedownright bought. This reverie no doubt, lasted longer than he thought,for presently he heard the loud rattle of shutters going up below. It wasclosing time; he hastily closed and locked the iron shutters, and thenwent out and shut the door.He had been gone about two hours, and that part of the street, so noisyin business hours, was hushed in silence, all but an occasional footstepon the flags outside, when something mysterious occurred in thewarehouse, now as dark as pitch.At an angle of the wall stood two large cases in a vertical position,with smaller cases lying at their feet. These two cases were about eightfeet high, more or less. Well, behind these cases suddenly flashed afeeble light, and the next moment two brown and sinewy hands appeared onthe edge of one of the cases--the edge next the wall; the case vibratedand rocked a little, and the next moment there mounted on the top of itnot a cat, nor a monkey, as might have been expected, but an animal thatin truth resembles both these quadrupeds, viz., a sailor; and need we saythat sailor was the mate of the _Proserpine?_ He descended lightly fromthe top of the case behind which he had been jammed for hours, andlighted a dark lantern; and went softly groping about the store with it.This was a mysterious act, and would perhaps have puzzled the proprietorsof the store even more than it would a stranger. For a stranger wouldhave said at once this is burglary, or else arson; but those acquaintedwith the place would have known that neither of those crimes was verypracticable. This enterprising sailor could not burn down this particularstore without roasting himself the first thing; and indeed he could notburn it down at all; for the roof was flat, and was in fact one giganticiron tank, like the roof of Mr. Goding's brewery in London. And by a neatcontrivance of American origin the whole tank could be turned in onemoment to a shower-bath, and drown a conflagration in thirty seconds orthereabouts. Nor could he rifle the place; the goods were greatlyprotected by their weight, and it was impossible to get out of the storewithout raising an alarm, and being searched.But, not to fall into the error of writers who underrate their readers'curiosity and intelligence, and so deluge them with comments andexplanations, we will now simply relate what Wylie did, leaving you toglean his motives as this tale advances.His jacket had large pockets, and he took out of them a bunch of eighteenbright steel keys, numbered, a set of new screwdrivers, a flask of rum,and two ship biscuits.He unlocked the eighteen cases marked _Proserpine,_ etc., and, peering inwith his lantern, saw the gold dust and small ingots packed in parcels,and surrounded by Australian wool of the highest possible quality. It wasa luscious sight.He then proceeded to a heavier task; he unscrewed, one after another,eighteen of the cases marked _Shannon,_ and the eighteen so selected,perhaps by private marks, proved to be packed close, and on a differentsystem from the gold, viz., in pigs, or square blocks, three, or in somecases four, to each chest. Now, these two ways of packing the specie andthe baser metal, respectively, had the effect of producing a certainuniformity of weight in the thirty-six cases Wylie was inspecting.Otherwise the gold cases would have been twice the weight of those thatcontained the baser metal; for lead is proverbially heavy, but underscientific tests is to gold as five to twelve, or thereabouts.In his secret and mysterious labor Wylie was often interrupted. Wheneverhe heard a step on the pavement outside he drew the slide of his lanternand hid the light. If he had examined the iron shutters he would haveseen that his light could never pierce through them into the street. Buthe was not aware of this. Notwithstanding these occasional interruptions,he worked so hard and continuously that the perspiration poured down himere he had unscrewed those eighteen chests containing the pigs of lead.However, it was done at last, and then he refreshed himself with adraught from his flask. The next thing was, he took the three pigs oflead out of one of the cases marked _Shannon,_ etc., and numberedfifteen, and laid them very gently on the floor. Then he transferred tothat empty case the mixed contents of a case branded _Proserpine_ 1,etc., and this he did with the utmost care and nicety, lest gold dustspilled should tell tales. And so he went on and amused himself byshifting the contents of the whole eighteen cases marked _Proserpine,_etc., into eighteen cases marked _Shannon,_ etc., and refilling them withthe _Shannon's_ lead. Frolicsome Mr. Wylie! Then he sat down on one ofthe cases _Proserpine'd,_ and ate a biscuit and drank a little rum; notmuch; for at this part of his career he was a very sober man, though hecould feign drunkenness, or indeed anything else.The gold was all at his mercy, yet he did not pocket an ounce of it; noteven a penny-weight to make a wedding-ring for Nancy Rouse. Mr. Wylie hada conscience. And a very original one it was; and, above all, he was verytrue to those he worked with. He carefully locked the gold cases up againand resumed the screwdriver, for there was another heavy stroke of workto be done; and he went at it like a man. He carefully screwed downagain, one after another, all those eighteen cases marked. _Shannon,_which he had filled with gold dust, and then, heating a sailor's needlered-hot over his burning wick, he put his own secret marks on thoseeighteen cases--marks that no eye but his own could detect. By this time,though a very powerful man, he felt much exhausted and would gladly havesnatched an hour's repose. But, consulting his watch by the light of hislantern, he found the sun had just risen. He retired to his place ofconcealment in the same cat-like way he had come out of it--that is tosay, he mounted on the high cases, and then slipped down behind them,into the angle of the wall.As soon as the office opened, two sailors, whom he had carefullyinstructed overnight, came with a boat for the cases; the warehouse wasopened in consequence, but they were informed that Wylie must be presentat the delivery."Oh, he won't be long," said they; "told us he would meet us here."There was a considerable delay, and a good deal of talking, and presentlyWylie was at their back, and put in his word.Seaton was greatly surprised at finding him there, and asked him where hehad sprung from."Me!" said Wylie, jocosely, "why, I hailed from Davy Jones's lockerlast.""I never heard you come in," said Seaton, thoughtfully."Well, sir," replied Wylie, civilly, "a man does learn to go like a caton board ship, that is the truth. I came in at the door like my betters;but I thought I heard you mention my name, so I made no noise. Well, hereI am, anyway, and--Jack, how many trips can we take these thunderingchests in? Let us see, eighteen for the _Proserpine,_ and forty for the_Shannon._ Is that correct, sir?""Perfectly.""Then, if you will deliver them, I'll check the delivery aboard thelighter there; and then we'll tow her alongside the ships."Seaton called up two more clerks, and sent one to the boat and one onboard the barge. The barge was within hail; so the cases were checked asthey passed out of the store, and checked again at the small boat, andalso on board the lighter. When they were all cleared out, Wylie gaveSeaton his receipt for them, and, having a steam-tug in attendance, towedthe lighter alongside the _Shannon_ first.Seaton carried the receipt to his employer. "But, sir," said he, "is thisregular for an officer of the _Proserpine_ to take the _Shannon's_ cargofrom us?""No, it is not regular," said the old gentleman; and he looked through awindow and summoned Mr. Hardcastle.Hardcastle explained that the _Proserpine_ shipped the gold, which wasthe more valuable consignment; and that he saw no harm in the officer whowas so highly trusted by the merchant (on this and on former occasions)taking out a few tons of lead and copper to the _Shannon._"Well, sir," said Seaton, "suppose I was to go out and see the chestsstowed in those vessels?""I think you are making a fuss about nothing," said Hardcastle.Mr. White was of the same opinion, but, being too wise to check zeal andcaution, told Seaton he might go for his own satisfaction.Seaton, with some difficulty, got a little boat and pulled across theharbor. He found the _Shannon_ had shipped all the chests marked with hername; and the captain and mate of the _Proserpine_ were beginning to shiptheirs. He paddled under the _Proserpine's_ stern.Captain Hudson, a rough salt, sang out, and asked him roughly what hewanted there."Oh, it is all right," said the mate; "he is come for your receipt andHewitt's. Be smart now, men; two on board, sixteen to come."Seaton saw the chests marked _Proserpine_ stowed in the _Proserpine,_ andwent ashore with Captain Hewitt's receipt for forty cases on board the_Shannon,_ and Captain Hudson's of eighteen on board the _Proserpine._As he landed he met Lloyds' agent, and told him what a valuable freighthe had just shipped. That gentleman merely remarked that both ships wereunderwritten in Sydney by the owners; but the freight was insured inLondon, no doubt.There was still something about this business Seaton did not quite like;perhaps it was in the haste of the shipments, or in the manner of themate. At all events, it was too slight and subtle to be communicated toothers with any hope of convincing them; and, moreover, Seaton could notbut own to himself that he hated Wardlaw, and was, perhaps, no fair judgeof his acts, and even of the acts of his servants.And soon a blow fell that drove the matter out of his head and his heart.Miss Helen Rolleston called at the office, and, standing within a fewfeet of him, handed Hardcastle a letter from Arthur Wardlaw, directingthat the ladies' cabin on board the _Shannon_ should be placed at herdisposal.Hardcastle bowed low to Beauty and Station, and promised her the bestpossible accommodation on board the _Shannon,_ bound for England nextweek.As she retired, she cast one quiet glance round the office in search ofSeaton's beard. But he had reduced its admired luxuriance, and trimmed itto a narrow mercantile point. She did not know his other features fromAdam, and little thought that young man, bent double over his paper, washer preserver and _protege;_ still less that he was at this moment coldas ice, and quivering with misery from head to foot, because her own lipshad just told him she was going to England in the _Shannon._Heartbroken, but still loving nobly, Seaton dragged himself down to theharbor, and went slowly on board the _Shannon_ to secure Miss Rollestonevery comfort.Then, sick at heart as he was, he made inquiries into the condition ofthe vessel which was to be trusted with so precious a freight; and theold boatman who was rowing him, hearing him make these inquiries, toldhim he himself was always about, and had noticed the _Shannon's_ pumpswere going every blessed night.Seaton carried this intelligence directly to Lloyds' agent; he overhauledthe ship, and ordered her into the graving dock for repairs.Then Seaton, for White & Co., wrote to Miss Rolleston that the _Shannon_was not seaworthy and could not sail for a month at the least.The lady simply acknowledged Messrs. White's communication, and Seatonbreathed again.Wardlaw had made Miss Rolleston promise him faithfully to sail that monthin his ship, the _Shannon._ Now she was a slave to her word and constantof purpose; so when she found she could not sail in the _Shannon,_ shecalled again on Messrs. White, and took her passage in the _Proserpine._The essential thing to her mind was to sail when she had promised, and togo in a ship that belonged to her lover.The _Proserpine_ was to sail in ten days.Seaton inquired into the state of the _Proserpine._ She was a good, soundvessel, and there was no excuse for detaining her.Then he wrestled long and hard with the selfish part of his great love.Instead of turning sullen, he set himself to carry out Helen Rolleston'swill. He went on board the _Proserpine_ and chose her the best sterncabin.General Rolleston had ordered Helen's cabin to be furnished, and theagent had put in the usual things, such as a standing bedstead withdrawers beneath, chest of drawers, small table, two chairs, washstand,looking-glass, and swinging lamp.But Seaton made several visits to the ship, and effected the followingarrangements at his own cost. He provided a neat cocoa-mat for her cabindeck, for comfort and foot-hold. He unshipped the regular six-paned sternwindows, and put in single-pane plate glass; he fitted venetian blinds,and hung two little rose-colored curtains to each of the windows; all soarranged as to be easily removed in case it should be necessary to shipdead-lights in heavy weather. He glazed the door leading to her bath-roomand quarter gallery with plate glass; he provided a light easy-chair,slung and fitted with grommets, to be hung on hooks screwed into thebeams in the midship of the cabin. On this Helen could sit and read, andso become insensible to the motion of the ship. He fitted a smallbookcase, with a button, which could be raised when a book might bewanted; he fixed a strike-bell in her maid's cabin communicating with twostrikers in Helen's cabin; he selected books, taking care that thevoyages and travels were prosperous ones. No "Seaman's Recorder,""Life-boat Journal," or "Shipwrecks and Disasters in the British Navy."Her cabin was the after-cabin on the starboard side, was entered throughthe cuddy, had a door communicating with the quarter gallery, two sternwindows and a dead-eye on deck. The maid's cabin was the portafter-cabin; doors opened into cuddy and quarter-gallery. And a finetrouble Miss Rolleston had to get a maid to accompany her; but at last ayoung woman offered to go with her for high wages, demurely suppressingthe fact that she had just married one of the sailors, and would havegladly gone for nothing. Her name was Jane Holt, and her husband'sMichael Donovan.In one of Seaton's visits to the _Proserpine_ he detected the mate andthe captain talking together and looking at him with unfriendlyeyes--scowling at him would hardly be too strong a word.However, he was in no state of mind to care much how two animals in bluejackets received his acts of self-martyrdom. He was there to do the lastkind offices of despairing love for the angel that had crossed his darkpath and illumined it for a moment, to leave it now forever.At last the fatal evening came; her last in Sydney.Then Seaton's fortitude, sustained no longer by the feverish stimulus ofdoing kindly acts for her, began to give way, and he desponded deeply.At nine in the evening he crept upon General Rolleston's lawn, where hehad first seen her. He sat down in sullen despair upon the very spot.Then he came nearer the house. There was a lamp in the dining-room; helooked in and saw her.She was seated at her father's knee, looking up at him fondly; her handwas in his; the tears were in their eyes; she had no mother; he no son;they loved one another devotedly. This, their tender gesture, and theirsad silence, spoke volumes to any one that had known sorrow. Poor Seatonsat down on the dewy grass outside and wept because she was weeping.Her father sent her to bed early. Seaton watched, as he had often donebefore, till her light went out; and then he flung himself on the wetgrass and stared at the sky in utter misery.The mind is often clearest in the middle of the night; and all of asudden he saw, as if written on the sky, that she was going to Englandexpressly to marry Arthur Wardlaw.At this revelation he started up, stung with hate as well as love, andhis tortured mind rebelled furiously. He repeated his vow that thisshould never be; and soon a scheme came into his head to prevent it; butit was a project so wild and dangerous that, even as his heated brainhatched it, his cooler judgment said, "Fly, madman, fly! or this lovewill _destroy_ you!"He listened to the voice of reason, and in another minute he was out ofthe premises. He fluttered to his lodgings.When he got there he could not go in; he turned and fluttered about thestreets, not knowing or caring whither; his mind was in a whirl; and,what with his bodily fever and his boiling heart, passion began tooverpower reason, that had held out so gallantly till now. He foundhimself at the harbor, staring with wild and bloodshot eyes at the_Proserpine,_ he who, an hour ago, had seen that he had but one thing todo--to try and forget young Wardlaw's bride. He groaned aloud, and ranwildly back into the town. He hurried up and down one narrow street,raging inwardly, like some wild beast in its den.By-and-by his mood changed, and he hung round a lamp-post and fell tomoaning and lamenting his hard fate and hers.A policeman came up, took him for a maudlin drunkard, and half-advised,half-admonished, him to go home.At that he gave a sort of fierce, despairing snarl and ran into the nextstreet to be alone.In this street he found a shop open and lighted, though it was but fiveo'clock in the morning. It was a barber's whose customers were workingpeople. HAIRCUTTING, SIXPENCE. EASY SHAVING, THREEPENCE. HOT COFFEE,FOURPENCE THE CUP. Seaton's eye fell upon this shop. He looked at itfixedly a moment from the opposite side of the way and then hurried on.He turned suddenly and came back. He crossed the road and entered theshop. The barber was leaning over the stove, removing a can of boilingwater from the fire to the hob. He turned at the sound of Seaton's stepand revealed an ugly countenance, rendered sinister by a squint.Seaton dropped into a chair and said, "I want my beard taken off."The man looked at him, if it could be called looking at him, and saiddryly, "Oh, do ye? How much am I to have for that job?""You know your own charge.""Of course I do. Threepence a chin.""Very well. Be quick then.""Stop a bit. That is my charge to working folk. I must have somethingmore off you.""Very well, man, I'll pay you double.""My price to you is ten shillings.""Why, what is that for?" asked Seaton in some alarm; he thought, in hisconfusion, the man must have read his heart."I'll tell ye why," said the squinting barber. "No, I won't. I'll showye." He brought a small mirror and suddenly clapped it before Seaton'seyes. Seaton started at his own image; wild, ghastly, and the eyes sobloodshot. The barber chuckled. This start was an extorted compliment tohis own sagacity. "Now wasn't I right?" said he; "did I ought to take thebeard off such a mug as that--for less than ten shillings?""I see," groaned Seaton; "you think I have committed some crime. One mansees me weeping with misery; he calls me a drunkard; another sees me palewith the anguish of my breaking heart; he calls me a felon. May God'scurse light on him and you, and all mankind!""All right," said the squinting barber, apathetically; "my price is tenbob, whether or no."Seaton felt in his pockets. "I have not got the money about me," said he."Oh, I'm not particular; leave your watch."Seaton handed the squinting vampire his watch without another word andlet his head fall upon his breast.The barber cut his beard close with the scissors, and made trivialremarks from time to time, but received no reply.At last, extortion having put him in a good humor, he said, "Don't be sodown-hearted, my lad. You are not the first that has got into trouble andhad to change faces."Seaton vouchsafed no reply.The barber shaved him clean, and was astonished at the change, andcongratulated him. "Nobody will ever know you," said he; "and I'll tellyou why; your mouth, it is inclined to turn up a little; now a mustacheit bends down, and that alters such a mouth as yours entirely. But, I'lltell you what, taking off this beard shows me something. _You are agentleman!!_ Make it a sovereign, sir."Seaton staggered out of the place without a word."Sulky, eh?" muttered the barber. He gathered up some of the long hair hehad cut off Seaton's chin with his scissors, admired it, and put it awayin paper.While thus employed, a regular customer looked in for his cup of coffee.It was the policeman who had taken Seaton for a convivial soul.CHAPTER VII.GENERAL ROLLESTON'S servants made several trips to the _Proserpine,_carrying boxes, etc.But Helen herself clung to the house till the last moment. "Oh, papa!"she cried, "I need all my resolution, all my good faith, to keep my wordwith Arthur, and leave you. Why, why did I promise? Why am I such a slaveto my word?""Because," said the old general, with a voice not so firm as usual, "Ihave always told you that a lady is not to be inferior to a gentleman inany virtue except courage. I've heard my mother say so often; and I'vetaught it to my Helen. And, my girl, where would be the merit of keepingour word, if we only kept it when it cost us nothing?"He promised to come after, in three months at furthest, and the bravegirl dried her tears as well as she could, not to add to the sadness hefought against as gallantly as he had often fought the enemies of hiscountry.The _Proserpine_ was to sail at two o'clock. At a little before one, agentleman boarded her and informed the captain that he was a missionary,the Rev. John Hazel, returning home, after a fever; and wished to take aberth in the _Proserpine._The mate looked him full in the face; and then told him there was verylittle accommodation for passengers, and it had all been secured by White& Co. for a young lady and her servants.Mr. Hazel replied that his means were small and moderate accommodationwould serve him; but he must go to England without delay.Captain Hudson put in his gracious word: "Then jump off the jetty at hightide and swim there; no room for black coats in my ship."Mr. Hazel looked from one to the other piteously. "Show me some mercy,gentlemen; my very life depends on it.""Very sorry, sir," said the mate; "but it is impossible. There's the_Shannon,_ you can go in her.""But she is under repairs; so I am told.""Well, there are a hundred and fifty carpenters on to her; and she willcome out of port in our wake.""Now, sir," said Hudson roughly, "bundle down the ship's side again ifyou please; this is a busy time. Hy!--rig the whip; here's the ladycoming off to us."The missionary heaved a deep sigh and went down into the boat that hadbrought him. But he was no sooner seated than he ordered the boatmen,somewhat peremptorily, to pull ashore as fast as they could row. His boatmet the Rollestons, father and daughter, coming out, and he turned hispale face and eyed them as he passed. Helen Rolleston was struck withthat sorrowful countenance, and whispered her father, "That poorclergyman has just left the ship." She made sure he had been taking leaveof some beloved one, bound for England. General Rolleston looked round,but the boats had passed each other, and the wan face was no longervisible.They were soon on board and received with great obsequiousness. Helen wasshown her cabin, and, observing the minute and zealous care that had beentaken of her comfort, she said, "Somebody who loves me has been here,"and turned her brimming eyes on her father. He looked quite puzzled; butsaid nothing.Father and daughter were then left alone in the cabin till the ship beganto heave her anchor (she lay just at the mouth of the harbor), and thenthe boatswain was sent to give General Rolleston warning. Helen came upwith him, pale and distressed. They exchanged a last embrace and GeneralRolleston went down the ship's side. Helen hung over the bulwarks andwaved her last adieu, though she could hardly see him for her tears.At this moment a four-oared boat swept alongside, and Mr. Hazel came onboard again. He presented Hudson a written order to give the Rev. JohnHazel a passage in the small berth abreast the main hatches. It wassigned "For White & Co., James Seaton;" and was indorsed with a stampedacknowledgment of the passage money, twenty-seven pounds.Hudson and Wylie, the mate, put their heads together over this. Themissionary saw them consulting, and told them he had mentioned theirmysterious conduct to Messrs. White & Co., and that Mr. Seaton hadpromised to stop the ship if their authority was resisted. "And I havepaid my passage money, and will not be turned out now except by force,"said the reverend gentleman quietly.Wylie's head was turned away from Mr. Hazel's, and on its profile a mostgloomy, vindictive look; so much so that Mr. Hazel was startled when theman turned his front face to him with a jolly, genial air and said,"Well, sir, the truth is, we seamen don't want passengers aboard ships ofthis class; they get in our way whenever it blows a capful. However,since you are here, make yourself as comfortable as you can.""There, that is enough palaver," said the captain, in his offensive way."Hoist the parson's traps aboard; and sheer off you. Anchor's apeak."He then gave his orders in stentorian roars; the anchor was hove up,catted and fished; one sail went up after another, the Proserpine's headcame round, and away she bore for England with a fair wind.General Rolleston went slowly and heavily home, and often turned his headand looked wistfully at the ship putting out wing upon wing and carryingoff his child like a tiny prey.To change the comparison, it was only a tender vine detached from a greatsturdy elm. Yet the tree, thus relieved of its delicate encumbrance, feltbare; and a soft thing was gone, that, seeking protection, had bestowedwarmth; had nestled and curled between the world's cold wind and thatstalwart stem.As soon as he got home he lighted a cigar and set to work to consolehimself by reflecting that it was but a temporary parting, since he hadvirtually resigned his post and was only waiting in Sydney till he shouldhave handed his papers in order over to his successor and settled one ortwo private matters that could not take three months.When he had smoked his cigar and reasoned away his sense of desolation,Nature put out her hand and took him by the breast and drew him gentlyupstairs to take a look at his beloved daughter's bedroom, by way ofseeing the last of her.The room had one window looking south and another west; the lattercommanded a view of the sea. General Rolleston looked down at the floor,littered with odds and ends--the dead leaves of dress that fall about alady in the great process of packing--and then gazed through the windowat the flying _Proserpine._He sighed and lighted another cigar. Before he had half finished it hestooped down and took up a little bow of ribbon that lay on the groundand put it quietly in his bosom. In this act he was surprised by SarahWilson, who had come up to sweep all such waifs and strays into her ownbox."La, sir," said she, rather crossly, "why didn't you tell me, and I'dhave tidied the room. It is all hugger-mugger, with miss a-leaving."And with this she went to the washstand to begin. General Rolleston's eyefollowed her movements, and he observed the water in one of the basinswas rather red. "What!" said he, "has she had an accident; cut herfinger?""No, sir," said Wilson."Her nose been bleeding, then?""No, sir."Not from her finger--nor--? Let me look."He examined the basin narrowly, and his countenance fell."Good Heavens!" said he. "I wish I had seen this before; she should nothave gone to-day. Was it the agitation of parting?""Oh, no, sir," said Wilson; "don't go to fancy that. Why, it is not thefirst time by a many.""Not the first!" faltered Rolleston. "In Heaven's name, why was I nevertold of this?""Indeed, sir," said Wilson, eagerly, "you must not blame me, sir. It wasas much as my place was worth to tell you. Miss is a young lady that willbe obeyed; and she gave me strict orders not to let you know. But she isgone now. And I always thought it was a pity she kept it so dark; but, asI was saying, sir, she _would_ be obeyed.""Kept what so dark?""Why, sir, her spitting of blood at times; and turning so thin by whatshe used to be, poor dear young lady."General Rolleston groaned aloud. "And this she hid from me; from me!" Hesaid no more, but kept looking bewildered and helpless, first at thebasin discolored by his daughter's blood, and then at the _Proserpine,_that was carrying her away, perhaps forever; and, at the double sight,his iron features worked with cruel distress; anguish so mute and malethat the woman Wilson, though not good for much, sat down and shedgenuine tears of pity.But he summoned all his fortitude, told Wilson he could not say she wasto blame, she had but obeyed her mistress's orders; and we must all obeyorders. "But now," said he, "it is me you ought to obey. Tell me, doesany doctor attend her?""None ever comes here, sir. But, one day, she let fall that she went toDr. Valentine, him that has the name for disorders of the chest."In a very few minutes General Rolleston was at Dr. Valentine's house, andasked him bluntly what was the matter with his daughter."Disease of the lungs," said the doctor simply.The unhappy father then begged the doctor to give him his real opinion asto the degree of danger; and Dr. Valentine told him, with some feeling,that the case was not desperate, but was certainly alarming.Remonstrated with for letting the girl undertake a sea voyage, he repliedrather evasively at first; that the air of Sydney disagreed with hispatient, and a sea voyage was more likely to do her good than harm,provided the weather was not downright tempestuous."And who is to insure me against that?' asked the afflicted father."Why, it is a good time of year," said Dr. Valentine; "and delay mighthave been fatal." Then, after a slight hesitation, "The fact is, sir,"said he, "I gathered from her servant that a husband awaits MissRolleston in England; and I must tell you, what of course I did not tellher, that the sooner she enters the married state the better. In fact, itis her one chance, in my opinion."General Rolleston pressed the doctor's hand, and went away withoutanother word.Only he hurried his matters of business; and took his passage in the_Shannon._It was in something of a warrior's spirit that he prepared to follow hisdaughter and protect her; but often he sighed at the invisible, insidiousnature of the foe, and wished it could have been a fair fight of bulletsand bayonets, and his own the life at stake.The _Shannon_ was soon ready for sea.But the gentleman who was to take General Rolleston's post met withsomething better, and declined it.General Rolleston, though chafing with impatience, had to give up goinghome in the _Shannon._ But an influential friend, Mr. Adolphus Savage,was informed of his difficulty, and obtained a year's leave of absencefor him, and permission to put young Savage in as his _locum tenens;_which, by the by, is how politic men in general serve their friends.The _Shannon_ sailed, but not until an incident had occurred that mustnot be entirely passed over. Old Mr. White called on General Rollestonwith a long face, and told him James Seaton had disappeared."Stolen anything?""Not a shilling. Indeed, the last thing the poor fellow did was to giveus a proof of his honesty. It seems a passenger paid him twenty-sevenpounds for a berth in the _Proserpine,_ just before she sailed. Well,sir, he might have put this in his pocket, and nobody been the wiser. Butno, he entered the transaction, and the numbers of the notes, and leftthe notes themselves in an envelope addressed to me. What I am mostafraid of is, that some harm has come to him, poor lad.""What day did he disappear?""The 11th of November.""The day my daughter sailed for England," said General Rolleston,thoughtfully."Was it, sir? Yes, I remember. She went in the _Proserpine."_General Rolleston knitted his brows in silence for some time; then hesaid, "I'll set the detectives on his track.""Not to punish him, general. We do not want him punished.""To punish him, protect him, or avenge him, as the case may require," wasthe reply, uttered very gravely.Mr. White took his leave. General Rolleston rang the bell, and directedhis servant to go for Hexham, the detective.He then rang the bell again, and sent for Sarah Wilson. He put somesearching questions to this woman; and his interrogatory had hardlyconcluded when Hexham was announced. General Rolleston dismissed thegirl, and, looking now very grave indeed, asked the detective whether heremembered James Seaton."That I do, sir.""He has levanted.""Taken much, sir?""Not a shilling.""Gone to the diggings?""That you must find out.""What day was he first missed, sir?""Eleventh of November. The very day Miss Rolleston left."Hexham took out a little greasy notebook and examined it. "Eleventh ofNovember," said he, "then I almost think I have got a clew, sir; but Ishall know more when I have had a word with two parties." With this heretired.But he came again at night and brought General Rolleston some positiveinformation; with this, however, we shall not trouble the reader justhere. For General Rolleston himself related it, and the person to whom hedid relate it, and the attendant circumstances, gave it a peculiarinterest.Suffice it to say here that General Rolleston went on board the _Shannon_charged with curious information about James Seaton; and sailed forEngland in the wake of the _Proserpine,_ and about two thousand milesastern.CHAPTER VIII.WARDLAW was at home before this with his hands full of business; and itis time the reader should be let into one secret at least, which thismerchant had contrived to conceal from the City of London, and from hisown father, and from every human creature, except one poor, simple,devoted soul, called Michael Penfold.There are men, who seem stupid, yet generally go right; there are alsoclever men, who appear to have the art of blundering wisely--_"sapienterdescendunt in infernum,"_ as the ancients have it; and some of theselatter will even lie on their backs, after a fall, and lift up theirvoices, and prove to you that in the nature of things they ought to havegone up, and their being down is monstrous; illusory.Arthur Wardlaw was not quite so clever as all that. Still he misconductedthe business of the firm with perfect ability from the first month heentered on it. Like those ambitious railways which ruin a goodly trunkwith excess of branches, not to say twigs, he set to work extending, andextending, and sent the sap of the healthy old concern flying to the endsof the earth.He was not only too ambitious, and not cool enough; he was also unlucky,or under a curse, or something; for things well conceived broke down, inhis hands, under petty accidents. And, besides, his new correspondentsand agents hit him cruelly hard. Then what did he? Why, shot good moneyafter bad, and lost both. He could not retrench, for his game wasconcealment; his father was kept in the dark, and drew his four thousanda year, as usual, and, upon any hesitation in that respect, would havecalled in an accountant and wound up the concern. But this tax upon thereceipts, though inconvenient, was a trifle compared with the series ofheavy engagements that were impending. The future was so black thatWardlaw junior was sore tempted to realize twenty thousand pounds, whicha man in his position could easily do, and fly the country. But thiswould have been to give up Helen Rolleston; and he loved her too well.His brain was naturally subtle and fertile in expedients; so he broughtall its powers to bear on a double problem--how to marry Helen andrestore the concern he had mismanaged to its former state. For this alarge sum of money was needed, not less than ninety thousand pounds.The difficulties were great; but he entered on this project with twoadvantages. In the first place, he enjoyed excellent credit; in thesecond, he was not disposed to be scrupulous. He had been cheated severaltimes; and nothing undermines feeble rectitude more than that. Such a manas Wardlaw is apt to establish a sort of account current with humanity."Several fellow-creatures have cheated me. Well, I must get as much back,by hook or by crook, from several fellow-creatures."After much hard thought he conceived his double master-stroke. And it wasto execute this he went out to Australia.We have seen that he persuaded Helen Rolleston to come to England and bemarried; but, as to the other part of his project, that is a matter forthe reader to watch, as it develops itself.His first act of business, on reaching England, was to insure thefreights of the _Proserpine_ and the _Shannon._He sent Michael Penfold to Lloyds', with the requisite vouchers,including the receipts of the gold merchants. Penfold easily insured the_Shannon,_ whose freight was valued at only six thousand pounds. The_Proserpine,_ with her cargo, and a hundred and thirty thousand pounds ofspecie to boot, was another matter. Some underwriters had an objection tospecie, being subject to theft as well as shipwreck; other underwriters,applied to by Penfold, acquiesced; others called on Wardlaw himself, toask a few questions, and he replied to them courteously, but with acertain nonchalance, treating it as an affair which might be big to them,but was not of particular importance to a merchant doing business on hisscale.To one underwriter, Condell, with whom he was on somewhat intimate terms,he said, "I wish I could insure the _Shannon_ at her value; but that isimpossible. The City of London could not do it. The _Proserpine_ bringsme some cases of specie, but my true treasure is on board the _Shannon._She carries my bride, sir.""Oh, indeed! Miss Rolleston.""Ah, I remember; you have seen her. Then you will not be surprised at aproposal I shall make you. Underwrite the _Shannon_ a million pounds, tobe paid by you if harm befalls my Helen. You need not look so astonished;I was only joking; you gentlemen deal with none but substantial values;and, as for me, a million would no more compensate me for losing her,than for losing my own life."The tears were in his pale eyes as he said these words; and Mr. Condelleyed him with sympathy. But he soon recovered himself, and was the man ofbusiness again. "Oh, the specie on board the _Proserpine?_ Well, I was inAustralia, you know, and bought that specie myself of the merchants whosenames are attached to the receipts. I deposited the cases with White &Co., at Sydney. Penfold will show you the receipt. I instructed JosephWylie, mate of the _Proserpine,_ and a trustworthy person, to see themstowed away in the _Proserpine,_ by White & Co. Hudson is a good seaman;and the _Proserpine_ a new ship, built by Mare. We have nothing to fearbut the ordinary perils of the sea.""So one would think," said Mr. Condell, and took his leave; but, at thedoor he hesitated, and then, looking down a little sheepishly, said, "Mr.Wardlaw, may I offer you a piece of advice?""Certainly."Then, double the insurance on the _Shannon,_ if you can.With these words he slipped out, evidently to avoid questions he did notintend to answer.Wardlaw stared after him, stupidly at first, and then stood up and puthis hand to his head in a sort of amazement. Then he sat down again, ashypale, and with the dew on his forehead, and muttered faintly,"Double--the insurance--of the--_Shannon!"_Men who walk in crooked paths are very subject to such surprises; doomed,like Ahab, to be pierced, through the joints of their armor, by randomshafts; by words uttered in one sense, but conscience interprets them inanother.It took a good many underwriters to insure the _Proserpine's_ freight;but the business was done at last.Then Wardlaw, who had feigned insouciance so admirably in that part ofhis interview with Condell, went, without losing an hour, and raised alarge sum of money on the insured freight, to meet the bills that werecoming due for the gold (for he had paid for most of it in paper at shortdates), and also other bills that were approaching maturity. This done,he breathed again, safe for a month or two from everything short of ageneral panic, and full of hope from his coming master-stroke. But twomonths soon pass when a man has a flock of kites in the air. Pass? Theyfly. So now he looked out anxiously for his Australian ships; and went toLloyds' every day to hear if either had been seen or heard of bysteamers, or by faster vessels than themselves.And, though Condell had underwritten the _Proserpine_ to the tune ofeight thousand pounds, yet still his mysterious words rang strangely inthe merchant's ears, and made him so uneasy that he employed a discreetperson to sound Condell as to what he meant by "double the insurance ofthe _Shannon."_It turned out to be the simplest affair in the world; Condell had secretinformation that the _Shannon_ was in bad repairs, so he had advised hisfriend to insure her heavily. For the same reason, he declined tounderwrite her freight himself.With respect to those ships, our readers already know two things, ofwhich Wardlaw himself, _nota bene,_ had no idea; namely, that the_Shannon_ had sailed last, instead of first, and that Miss Rolleston wasnot on board of her, but in the _Proserpine,_ two thousand miles ahead.To that, your superior knowledge, we, posters of the sea and land, areabout to make a large addition, and relate things strange, but true.While that anxious and plotting merchant strains his eyes seaward, tryinghard to read the future, we carry you, in a moment of time, across thePacific, and board the leading vessel, the good ship _Proserpine,_homeward bound.The ship left Sydney with a fair wind, but soon encountered adverseweather, and made slow progress, being close hauled, which was her worstpoint of sailing. She pitched a good deal, and that had a very ill effecton Miss Rolleston. She was not seasick, but thoroughly out of sorts. And,in one week, became perceptibly paler and thinner than when she started.The young clergyman, Mr. Hazel, watched her with respectful anxiety, andthis did not escape her feminine observation. She noted quietly thatthose dark eyes of his followed her with a mournful tenderness, butwithdrew their gaze when she looked at him. Clearly, he was interested inher, but had no desire to intrude upon her attention. He would bring upthe squabs for her, and some of his own wraps, when she stayed on deck,and was prompt with his arm when the vessel lurched; and showed her thoseother little attentions which are called for on board ship, but without aword. Yet, when she thanked him in the simplest and shortest way, hisgreat eyes flashed with pleasure, and the color mounted to his verytemples.Engaged young ladies are, for various reasons, more sociable with theother sex than those who are still on the universal mock-defensive. Aship, like a distant country, thaws even English reserve, and women ingeneral are disposed to admit ecclesiastics to certain privileges. Nowonder then that Miss Rolleston, after a few days, met Mr. Hazelhalf-way; and they made acquaintance on board the _Proserpine,_ inmonosyllables at first; but, the ice once fairly broken, the intercourseof mind became rather rapid.At first it was a mere intellectual exchange, but one very agreeable toMiss Rolleston; for a fine memory, and omnivorous reading from his veryboyhood, with the habit of taking notes, and reviewing them, had made Mr.Hazel a walking dictionary, and a walking essayist if required.But when it came to something which, most of all, the young lady hadhoped from this temporary acquaintance, viz., religious instruction, shefound him indeed as learned on that as on other topics, but cold anddevoid of unction. So much so, that one day she said to him, "I canhardly believe you have ever been a missionary." But at that he seemed sodistressed that she was sorry for him, and said, sweetly, "Excuse me, Mr.Hazel, my remark was in rather bad taste, I fear.""Not at all," said he. "Of course I am unfit for missionary work, or Ishould not be here."Miss Rolleston took a good look at him, but said nothing. However, hisreply and her perusal of his countenance satisfied her that he was a manwith very little petty vanity and petty irritability.One day they were discoursing of gratitude; and Mr. Hazel said he had apoor opinion of those persons who speak of the burden of gratitude, andmake a fuss about being "laid under an obligation.""As for me," said he, "I have owed such a debt, and found the sense of itvery sweet.""But perhaps you were always hoping to make a return," said Helen."That I was. Hoping against hope.""Do you think people are grateful, in general?""No, Miss Rolleston, I do not.""Well, I think they are. To me at least. Why, I have experiencedgratitude even in a convict. It was a poor man, who had been transported,for something or other, and he begged papa to take him for his gardener.Papa did, and he was so grateful that, do you know, he suspected ourhouse was to be robbed, and he actually watched in the garden night afternight. And, what do you think? the house was attacked by a whole gang;but poor Mr. Seaton confronted them and shot one, and was woundedcruelly; but he beat them off for us; and was not that gratitude?"While she was speaking so earnestly, Mr. Hazel's blood seemed to runthrough his veins like heavenly fire, but he said nothing, and the ladyresumed with gentle fervor, "Well, we got him a clerk's place in ashipping-office, and heard no more of him; but he did not forget us; mycabin here was fitted up with every comfort and every delicacy. I thankedpapa for it; but he looked so blank I saw directly he knew nothing aboutit, and, now I think of it, it was Mr. Seaton. I am positive it was. Poorfellow! And I should not even know him if I saw him."Mr. Hazel observed, in a low voice, that Mr. Seaton's conduct did notseem wonderful to him. "Still," said he, "one is glad to find there issome good left even in a criminal.""A criminal!" cried Helen Rolleston, firing up. "Pray, who says he was acriminal? Mr. Hazel, once for all, no friend of mine ever deserves such aname as that. A friend of mine may commit some great error or imprudence;but that is all. The poor grateful soul was never guilty of any downrightwickedness. _That stands to reason."_Mr. Hazel did not encounter this feminine logic with his usual ability;he muttered something or other, with a trembling lip, and left her soabruptly that she asked herself whether she had inadvertently saidanything that could have offended him; and awaited an explanation. Butnone came. The topic was never revived by Mr. Hazel; and his manner, attheir next meeting, showed he liked her none the worse that she stood upfor her friends.The wind steady from the west for two whole days, and the _Proserpine_showed her best sailing qualities, and ran four hundred and fifty milesin that time.Then came a dead calm, and the sails flapped lazily and the mastsdescribed an arc; and the sun broiled; and the sailors whistled; and thecaptain drank; and the mate encouraged him.During this calm Miss Rolleston fell downright ill, and quitted the deck.Then Mr. Hazel was very sad; borrowed all the books in the ship and readthem, and took notes; and when he had done this he was at leisure to readmen, and so began to study Hiram Hudson, Joseph Wylie, and others, andtake a few notes about them.From these we select some that are better worth the reader's attentionthan anything we could relate in our own persons at this stagnant part ofthe story.  PASSAGES FROM MR. HAZEL'S DIARY.  "CHARACTERS ON BOARD THE 'PROSERPINE.'"There are two sailors, messmates, who have formed an antique friendship;their names are John Welch and Samuel Cooper. Welch is a very able seamanand a chatterbox. Cooper is a good sailor, but very silent; only what hedoes say is much to the purpose."The gabble of Welch is agreeable to the silent Cooper; and Welch admiresCooper's taciturnity."I asked Welch what made him like Cooper so much. And he said, 'Why, yousee, sir, he is my messmate, for one thing, and a seaman that knows hiswork; and then he has been well eddycated, and he knows when to hold histongue, does Sam.'"I asked Cooper why he was so fond of Welch. He only grunted in an uneasyway at first; but, when I pressed for a reply, he let out twowords--'Capital company'; and got away from me."Their friendship, though often roughly expressed, is really a tender andtouching sentiment. I think either of these sailors would bare his backand take a dozen lashes in place of his messmate. I too once thought Ihad made such a friend. Eheu!"Both Cooper and Welch seem, by their talk, to consider the ship a livingcreature. Cooper chews. Welch only smokes, and often lets his pipe out;he is so voluble."Captain Hudson is quite a character, or, I might say, two characters;for he is one man when he is sober, and another when he is the worse forliquor; and that, I am sorry to see, is very often. Captain Hudson,sober, is a rough, bearish seaman, with a quick, experienced eye, thattakes in every rope in the ship, as he walks up and down hisquarter-deck. He either evades or bluntly declines conversation, andgives his whole mind to sailing his ship."Captain Hudson, drunk, is a garrulous man, who seems to have driftedback into the past. He comes up to you and talks of his own accord, andalways about himself, and what he did fifteen or twenty years since. Heforgets whatever has occurred half an hour ago; and his eye, which was aneagle's, is now a mole's. He no longer sees what his sailors are doingalow or aloft; to be sure he no longer cares; his present ship may takecare of herself while he is talking of his past ones. But the surestindicia of inebriety in Hudson are these two. First, his nose is red.Secondly, he discourses upon a seaman's _duty to his employers._ Ebriusrings the changes on his 'duty to his employers' till drowsiness attackshis hearers. _Cicero de officiis_ was all very well at a certain periodof one's life, but _bibulus nauta de officiis_ is rather too much."N. B.--Except when his nose is red not a word about his 'duty to hisemployers.' That phrase, like a fine lady, never ventures into themorning air. It is purely post-prandial, and sacred to occasions when heis utterly neglecting his duty to his employers, and to everybody else."All this is ridiculous enough, but somewhat alarming. To think that_her_ precious life should be intrusted to the care and skill of sounreliable a captain!"Joseph Wylie, the mate, is less eccentric but even more remarkable. Heis one of those powerfully built fellows whom Nature, one would think,constructed to gain all their ends by force and directness. But no suchthing; he goes about as softly as a cat; is always popping out of holesand corners; and I can see he watches me and tries to hear what I say toher. He is civil to me when I speak to him; yet I notice he avoids mequietly. Altogether, there is something about him that puzzles me. Whywas he so reluctant to let me on board as a passenger? Why did he tell adownright falsehood? For he said there was no room for me; yet, even now,there are two cabins vacant, and he has taken possession of them."The mate of this ship has several barrels of spirits in his cabin, orrather cabins, and it is he who makes the captain drunk. I learned thisfrom one of the boys. This looks ugly. I fear Wylie is a bad, designingman, who wishes to ruin the captain, and so get his place. But, meantime,the ship might be endangered by this drunkard's misconduct. I shall watchWylie closely, and perhaps put the captain on his guard against thisfalse friend."Last night, a breeze got up about sunset, and H. R. came on deck forhalf an hour. I welcomed her as calmly as I could: but I felt my voicetremble and my heart throb. She told me the voyage tired her much; but itwas the last she should have to make. How strange, how hellish (Godforgive me for saying so!) it seems that _she_ should love _him._ But,does she love him? Can she love him? Could she love him if she knew all?Know him she shall before she marries him. For the present, be still, myheart."She soon went below and left me desolate. I wandered all about the ship,and, at last, I came upon the inseparables, Welch and Cooper. They weresquatted on the deck, and Welch's tongue was going as usual. He wastalking about this Wylie, and saying that, in all his ships, he had neverknown such a mate as this; why, the captain was under his thumb, he thengave a string of captains, each of whom would have given his mate a rounddozen at the gangway, if he had taken so much on him as this one does."'Grog!' suggested Cooper, in extenuation."Welch admitted Wylie was liberal with that, and friendly enough with themen; but, still, he preferred to see a ship commanded by the captain, andnot by a lubber like Wylie."I expressed some surprise at this term, and said I had envied Wylie'snerves in a gale of wind we encountered early in the voyage."The talking sailor explained, 'In course, he has been to sea afore this,and weathered many a gale. But so has the cook. That don't make a man asailor. You ask him how to send down a to'-gallant yard or gammon abowsprit, or even mark a lead line, and he'll stare at ye like Old Nick,when the angel caught him with the red-hot tongs, and questioned him outof the Church Catechism. Ask Sam there if ye don't believe me. Sam, whatdo you think of this Wylie for a seaman?'"Cooper could not afford anything so precious, in his estimate of things,as a word; but he lifted a great brawny hand, and gave a snap with hisfinger and thumb that disposed of the mate's pretensions to seamanshipmore expressively than words could have done it."The breeze has freshened, and the ship glides rapidly through the water,bearing us all homeward. H. R. has resumed her place upon the deck; andall seems bright again. I ask myself how we existed without the sight ofher."This morning the wind shifted to the southwest; the captain surprised usby taking in sail. But his sober eye had seen something more than ours;for at noon it blew a gale, and by sunset it was deemed prudent to bringthe ship's head to the wind, and we are now lying to. The ship lurches,and the wind howls through the bare rigging; but she rides buoyantly, andno danger is apprehended."Last night, as I lay in my cabin, unable to sleep, I heard some heavyblows strike the ship's side repeatedly, causing quite a vibration. Ifelt alarmed, and went out to tell the captain. But I was obliged to goon my hands and knees, such was the force of the wind. Passing the mate'scabin, I heard sounds that made me listen acutely; and I then found theblows were being struck inside the ship. I got to the captain and toldhim. 'Oh,' said he, 'ten to one it's the mate nailing down his chests, orthe like.' But I assured him the blows struck the side of the ship, and,at my earnest request, he came out and listened. He swore a great oath,and said the lubber would be through the ship's side. He then tried thecabin door, but it was locked."The sounds ceased directly."We called to the mate, but received no reply for a long time. At lastWylie came out of the gun-room, looking rather pale, and asked what wasthe matter."I told him he ought to know best, for the blows were heard where he hadjust come from."'Blows!' said he; 'I believe you. Why, a tierce of butter had gotadrift, and was bumping up and down the hold like thunder.' He then askedus whether that was what we had disturbed him for, entered his cabin, andalmost slammed the door in our faces."I remarked to the captain on his disrespectful conduct. The captain wascivil, and said I was right; he was a cross-grained, unmanageable brute,and he wished he was out of the ship. 'But you see, sir, he has got theear of the merchant ashore; and so I am obliged to hold a candle to theDevil, as the saying is.' He then fired a volley of oaths and abuse atthe offender; and, not to encourage foul language, I retired to my cabin."The wind declined toward daybreak, and the ship recommenced her voyageat 8 A. M.; but under treble reefed topsails and reefed courses."I caught the captain and mate talking together in the friendliest waypossible. That Hudson is a humbug; there is some mystery between him andthe mate."To-day H. R. was on deck for several hours, conversing sweetly andlooking like the angel she is. But happiness soon flies from me; asteamer came in sight, bound for Sydney. She signaled us to heave to, andsend a boat. This was done, and the boat brought back a letter for her.It seems they took us for the _Shannon,_ in which ship she was expected."The letter was from _him._ How her cheek flushed and her eye beamed asshe took it! And, oh, the sadness, the agony, that stood beside herunheeded."I left the deck; I could not have contained myself. What a thing iswealth! By wealth, that wretch can stretch out his hand across the ocean,and put a letter into her hand under my very eye. Away goes all that Ihave gained by being near her while he is far away. He is not in Englandnow--he is here. His odious presence has driven me from her. Oh, that Icould be a child again, or in my grave, to get away from this Hell ofLove and Hate."At this point, we beg leave to take the narrative into our own handsagain.Mr. Hazel actually left the deck to avoid the sight of Helen Rolleston'sflushed cheek and beaming eyes, reading Arthur Wardlaw's letter.And here we may as well observe that he retired not merely because thetorture was hard to bear. He had some disclosures to make, on reachingEngland; but his good sense told him this was not the time or the placeto make them, nor Helen Rolleston the person to whom, in the firstinstance, they ought to be made.While he tries to relieve his swelling heart by putting its throbs onpaper (and, in truth, this is some faint relief, for want of which many aless unhappy man than Hazel has gone mad), let us stay by the lady'sside, and read her letter with her."RUSSELL SQUARE, Dec. 15, 1865."MY DEAR LOVE--Hearing that the _Antelope_ steam-packet was going toSydney, by way of Cape Horn, I have begged the captain, who is under someobligations to me, to keep a good lookout for the _Shannon,_ homewardbound, and board her with these lines, weather permitting."Of course the chances are you will not receive them at sea; but stillyou possibly may; and my heart is so full of you, I seize any excuse foroverflowing; and then I picture to myself that bright face reading anunexpected letter in mid-ocean, and so I taste beforehand the greatestpleasure my mind can conceive--the delight of giving you pleasure, my ownsweet Helen."News, I have little. You know how deeply and devotedly you arebeloved--know it so well that I feel words are almost wasted in repeatingit Indeed, the time, I hope, is at hand when the word 'love' will hardlybe mentioned between us. For my part, I think it will be too visible inevery act, and look, and word of mine, to need repetition. We do notspeak much about the air we live in. We breathe it, and speak with it,not of it."I suppose all lovers are jealous. I think I should go mad if you were togive me a rival; but then I do not understand that ill-natured jealousywhich would rob the beloved object of all affections but the one. I knowmy Helen loves her father--loves him, perhaps, as well, or better, thanshe does me. Well, in spite of that, I love him too. Do you know, I neversee that erect form, that model of courage and probity, come into a room,but I say to myself, 'Here comes my benefactor; but for this man therewould be no Helen in the world.' Well, dearest, an unexpectedcircumstance has given me a little military influence (these things dohappen in the City); and I really believe that, what with hisacknowledged merits (I am secretly informed a very high personage said,the other day, he had not received justice), and the influence I speakof, a post will shortly be offered to your father that will enable him tolive, henceforth, in England, with comfort, I might say, affluence.Perhaps he might live with us. That depends upon himself."Looking forward to this, and my own still greater happiness, diverts mymind awhile from the one ever-pressing anxiety. But, alas! it willreturn. By this time my Helen is on the seas--the terrible, thetreacherous, the cruel seas, that spare neither beauty nor virtue, northe longing hearts at home. I have conducted this office for some years,and thought I knew care and anxiety. But I find I knew neither till now."I have two ships at sea, the _Shannon_ and the _Proserpine._ The_Proserpine_ carries eighteen chests of specie, worth a hundred andthirty thousand pounds. I don't care one straw whether she sinks orswims. But the _Shannon_ carries my darling; and every gust at nightawakens me, and every day I go into the great room at Lloyd's and watchthe anemometer. O, God! be merciful, and bring my angel safe to me! O,God! be just, and strike her not for my offenses!"Besides the direct perils of the sea are some others you might escape byprudence. Pray avoid the night air, for my sake, who could not live ifany evil befell you; and be careful in your diet. You were not looking sowell as usual when I left. Would I had words to make you know your ownvalue. Then you would feel it a _duty_ to be prudent."But I must not sadden you with my fears; let me turn to my hopes. Howbright they are! what joy, what happiness, is sailing toward me, nearerand nearer every day! I ask myself what am I that such paradise should bemine."My love, when we are one, shall we share every thought, or shall I keepcommerce, speculation, and its temptations away from your pure spirit?Sometimes I think I should like to have neither thought nor occupationunshared by you; and that you would purify trade itself by your contact;at other times I say to myself, 'Oh, never soil that angel with yourmiserable business; but go home to her as if you were going from earth toheaven, for a few blissful hours.' But you shall decide this question,and every other."Must I close this letter? Must I say no more, though I have scarcelybegun?"Yes, I will end, since, perhaps, you will never see it."When I have sealed it, I mean to hold it in my clasped hands, and sopray the Almighty to take it safe to you, and to bring you safe to himwho can never know peace nor joy till he sees you once more."Your devoted and anxious lover,"ARTHUR WARDLAW."Helen Rolleston read this letter more than once. She liked it none theless for being disconnected and unbusiness-like. She had seen herArthur's business letters; models of courteous conciseness. She did notvalue such compositions. This one she did. She smiled over it, allbeaming and blushing; she kissed it, and read it again, and sat with itin her lap.But by and by her mood changed, and, when Mr. Hazel ventured upon deckagain, he found her with her forehead sinking on her extended arm, andthe lax hand of that same arm holding the letter. She was crying.The whole drooping attitude was so lovely, so feminine, yet so sad, thatHazel stood irresolute, looking wistfully at her.She caught sight of him, and, by a natural impulse, turned gently away,as if to hide her tears. But the next moment she altered her mind, andsaid, with a quiet dignity that came naturally to her at times, "Whyshould I hide my care from you, sir? Mr. Hazel, may I speak to you _as aclergyman?"_"Certainly," said Mr. Hazel, in a somewhat faint voice.She pointed to a seat, and he sat down near her.She was silent for some time; her lip quivered a little; she wasstruggling inwardly for that decent composure which on certain occasionsdistinguishes the lady from the mere woman; and it was with a pretty firmvoice she said what follows:"I am going to tell you a little secret; one I have kept from my ownfather. It is--that I have not very long to live."Her hazel eye rested calmly on his face while she said these wordsquietly.He received them with amazement at first; amazement that soon deepenedinto horror. "What do you mean?" he gasped. "What words are these?""Thank you for minding so much," said she sweetly. "I will tell you. Ihave fits of coughing, not frequent, but violent; and then blood veryoften comes from my lungs. That is a bad sign, you know. I have been sofor four months now, and I am a good deal wasted; my hand used to be veryplump; look at it now. Poor Arthur!"She turned away her head to drop a gentle, unselfish tear or two; andHazel stared with increasing alarm at the lovely but wasted hand shestill held out to him, and glanced, too, at Arthur Wardlaw's letter, heldslightly by the beloved fingers.He said nothing, and, when she looked round, again, he was pale andtrembling. The revelation was so sudden."Pray be calm, sir," said she. "We need speak of this no more. But now, Ithink, you will not be surprised that I come to you for religious adviceand consolation, short as our acquaintance is.""I am in no condition to give them," said Hazel, in great agitation. "Ican think of nothing but how to save you. May Heaven help me, and give mewisdom for that.""This is idle," said Helen Rolleston, gently but firmly. "I have had thebest advice for months, and I get worse; and, Mr. Hazel, I shall never bebetter. So aid me to bow to the will of Heaven. Sir, I do not repine atleaving the world; but it does grieve me to think how my departure willaffect those whose happiness is very, very dear to me."She then looked at the letter, blushed, and hesitated a moment; but endedby giving it to him whom she had applied to as her religious adviser."Oblige me by reading that. And, when you have, I think you will grant mea favor I wish to ask you. Poor fellow! so full of hopes that I am doomedto disappoint."She rose to hide her emotion, and left Arthur Wardlaw's letter in thehands of him who loved her, if possible, more devotedly than ArthurWardlaw did; and she walked the deck pensively, little dreaming howstrange a thing she had done.As for Hazel, he was in a situation poignant with agony; only the heavyblow that had just fallen had stunned and benumbed him. He felt a naturalrepugnance to read this letter. But she had given him no choice. He readit. In reading it he felt a mortal sickness come over him, but hepersevered; he read it carefully to the end, and he was examining thesignature keenly, when Miss Rolleston rejoined him, and, taking theletter from him, placed it in her bosom before his eyes."He loves me; does he not?" said she wistfully.Hazel looked half stupidly in her face for a moment; then, with a candorwhich was part of his character, replied, doggedly, "Yes, the man whowrote that letter loves you.""Then you can pity him, and I may venture to ask you the favor to-- Itwill be a bitter grief and disappointment to him. Will you break it tohim as gently as you can; will you say that his Helen-- Will you tell himwhat I have told you?""I decline."This point-blank refusal surprised Helen Rolleston; all the more that itwas uttered with a certain sullenness, and even asperity, she had neverseen till then in this gentle clergyman.It made her fear she had done wrong in asking it; and she looked ashamedand distressed.However, the explanation soon followed."My business," said he, "is to prolong your precious life; and making upyour mind to die is not the way. You shall have no encouragement in suchweakness from me. Pray let me be your physician.""Thank you," said Helen, coldly; "I have my own physician.""No doubt; but he shows me his incapacity by allowing you to live onpastry and sweets, things that are utter poison to you. Disease of thelungs is curable, but not by drugs and unwholesome food.""Mr. Hazel," said the lady, "we will drop the subject, if you please. Ithas taken an uninteresting turn.""To you, perhaps; but not to me.""Excuse me, sir; if you took that real friendly interest in me and mycondition I was vain enough to think you might, you would hardly haverefused me the first favor I ever asked you; and," drawing herself upproudly, "need I say the last?""You are unjust," said Hazel, sadly; "unjust beyond endurance. I refuseyou anything that is for your good? I, who would lay down my life withunmixed joy for you?""Mr. Hazel!" And she drew back from him with a haughty stare."Learn the truth why I cannot, and will not, talk to Arthur Wardlaw aboutyou. For one thing, he is my enemy, and I am his.""His enemy? my Arthur's!""His mortal enemy. And I am going to England to clear an innocent man,and expose Arthur Wardlaw's guilt.""Indeed," said Helen, with lofty contempt. "And pray what has he done toyou?""He had a benefactor, a friend; he entrapped him into cashing a note ofhand, which he must have known or suspected to be forged; then baselydeserted him at the trial, and blasted his friend's life forever.""Arthur Wardlaw did that?""He did; and that very James Seaton was his victim."Her delicate nostrils were expanded with wrath, and her eyes flashedfire. "Mr. Hazel, you are a liar and a slanderer."The man gave a kind of shudder, as if cold steel had passed through hisheart. But his fortitude was great; he said doggedly, "Time will show.Time, and a jury of our countrymen.""I will be his witness. I will say, this is the malice of a rival. Yes,sir, you forget that you have let out the motive of this wicked slander.You love me yourself; Heaven forgive me for profaning the name of love!""Heaven forgive you for blaspheming the purest, fondest love that everone creature laid at the feet of another. Yes, Helen Rolleston, I loveyou; and will save you from the grave and from the villain Wardlaw; bothfrom one and the other.""Oh," said Helen, clinching her teeth, "I hope this is true; I hope you dolove me, you wretch; then I may find a way to punish you for belying theabsent, and stabbing me to the heart, through him."Her throat swelled with a violent convulsion, and she could utter no morefor a moment; and she put her white handkerchief to her lips, and drew itaway discolored slightly with blood."Ah! you love me," she cried; "then know, for your comfort, that you haveshortened my short life a day or two, by slandering him to my face, youmonster. Look there at your love, and see what it has done for me."She put the handkerchief under his eyes, with hate gleaming in her own.Mr. Hazel turned ashy pale, and glared at it with horror; he could haveseen his own shed with stoical firmness; but a mortal sickness struck hisheart at the sight of her blood. His hands rose and quivered in apeculiar way, his sight left him, and the strong man, but tender lover,staggered, and fell heavily on the deck, in a dead swoon, and lay at herfeet pale and motionless.She uttered a scream, and sailors came running.They lifted him, with rough sympathy; and Helen Rolleston retired to hercabin, panting with agitation. But she had little or no pity for theslanderer. She read Arthur Wardlaw's letter again, kissed it, wept overit, reproached herself for not having loved the writer enough; and vowedto repair that fault. "Poor slandered Arthur," said she; "from this hourI will love you as devotedly as you love me."CHAPTER IX.AFTER this, Helen Rolleston and Mr. Hazel never spoke. She walked pasthim on the deck with cold and haughty contempt.He quietly submitted to it; and never presumed to say one word to heragain. Only, as his determination was equal to his delicacy, MissRolleston found, one day, a paper on her table, containing advice as tothe treatment of disordered lungs, expressed with apparent coldness, andbacked by a string of medical authorities, quoted _memoriter._She sent this back directly, indorsed with a line, in pencil, that shewould try hard to live, now she had a friend to protect from calumny; butshould use her own judgment as to the means.Yet women will be women. She had carefully taken a copy of his advicebefore she cast it out with scorn.He replied, "Live with whatever motive you please; only live."To this she vouchsafed no answer; nor did this unhappy man trouble heragain, until an occasion of a very different kind arose.One fine night he sat on the deck, with his back against the mainmast, indeep melancholy and listlessness, and fell, at last, into a doze, fromwhich he was wakened by a peculiar sound below. It was a beautiful andstilly night; all sounds were magnified; and the father of all ratsseemed to be gnawing the ship down below.Hazel's curiosity was excited, and he went softly down the ladder to seewhat the sound really was. But that was not so easy, for it proved to bebelow decks; but he saw a light glimmering through a small scuttle abaftthe mate's cabin, and the sounds were in the neighborhood of that light.It now flashed upon Mr. Hazel that this was the very quarter where he hadheard that mysterious knocking when the ship was lying to in the gale.Upon this a certain degree of vague suspicion began to mingle with hiscuriosity.He stood still a moment, listening acutely; then took off his shoes veryquietly, and moved with noiseless foot toward the scuttle.The gnawing still continued.He put his head through the scuttle, and peered into a dark, dismalplace, whose very existence was new to him. It was, in fact, a vacantspace between the cargo and the ship's run. This wooden cavern was verynarrow, but not less than fifteen feet long. The candle was at thefurther end, and between it and Hazel a man was working, with his flankturned toward the spectator. This partly intercepted the light; but stillit revealed in a fitful way the huge ribs of the ship, and her innerskin, that formed the right-hand partition, so to speak, of this blackcavern; and close outside those gaunt timbers was heard the wash of thesea.There was something solemn in the close proximity of that tremendouselement and the narrowness of the wooden barrier.The bare place, and the gentle, monotonous wash of the liquid monster, onthat calm night, conveyed to Mr. Hazel's mind a thought akin to David's."As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step betweenme and death."Judge whether that thought grew weaker or stronger, when, after straininghis eyes for some time, to understand what was going on at that midnighthour, in that hidden place, he saw who was the workman and what was hisoccupation.It was Joseph Wylie, the mate. His profile was illuminated by the candle,and looked ghastly. He had in his hands an auger of enormous size, andwith this he was drilling a great hole through the ship's side, justbelow the water-mark; an act, the effect of which would be to let the seabodily into the ship and sink her, with every soul on board, to thebottom of the Pacific Ocean."I was stupefied; and my hairs stood on end, and my tongue clove to myjaws."Thus does one of Virgil's characters describe the effect his mindproduced upon his body in a terrible situation.Mr. Hazel had always ridiculed that trite line as a pure exaggeration;but he altered his opinion after that eventful night.When he first saw what Wylie was doing, _obstupuit,_ he was merelybenumbed; but, as his mind realized the fiendish nature of the act, andits tremendous consequences, his hair actually bristled, and for a fewminutes at least he could not utter a word.In that interval of stupor, matters took another turn. The auger went inup to the haft. Then Wylie caught up with his left hand a wooden plug hehad got ready, jerked the auger away, caught up a hammer, and swiftlyinserted the plug.Rapid as he was, a single jet of water came squirting viciously in. ButWylie lost no time; he tapped the plug smartly with his hammer severaltimes, and then, lifting a mallet with both hands, rained heavy blows onit that drove it in, and shook the ship's side.Then Hazel found his voice, and he uttered an ejaculation that made themate look round; he glared at the man who was glaring at him, and,staggering backward, trod on the light, and all was darkness and deadsilence.All but the wash of the sea outside, and that louder than ever.But a short interval sufficed to restore one of the parties to hisnatural self-possession."Lord, sir," said Wylie, "how you startled me! You should not come upon aman at his work like that. We might have had an accident.""What were you doing?" said Hazel, in a voice that quavered in spite ofhim."Repairing the ship. Found a crack or two in her inner skin. There, letme get a light, and I'll explain it to you, sir."He groped his way out, and invited Mr. Hazel into his cabin. There hestruck a light, and, with great civility, tendered an explanation. Theship, he said, had labored a good deal in the last gale, and he haddiscovered one or two flaws in her, which were of no immediateimportance; but experience had taught him that in calm weather a shipought to be kept tight. "As they say ashore, a stitch in time savesnine.""But drilling holes in her is not the way," said Hazel sternly.The mate laughed. "Why, sir," said he, "what other way is there? Wecannot stop an irregular crack; we can frame nothing to fit it. The wayis to get ready a plug measured a trifle larger than the aperture you aregoing to make; then drill a round hole and force in the plug. I know noother way than that; and I was a ship's carpenter for ten years before Iwas a mate."This explanation, and the manner in which it was given, removed Mr.Hazel's apprehensions for the time being. "It was very alarming," saidhe; "but I suppose you know your business.""Nobody better, sir," said Wylie. "Why, it is not one seaman in threethat would trouble his head about a flaw in a ship's inner skin; but I'ma man that looks ahead. Will you have a glass of grog, sir, now you arehere? I keep that under my eye, too; between ourselves, if the skipperhad as much in his cabin as I have here, that might be worse for us allthan a crack or two in the ship's inner skin."Mr. Hazel declined to drink grog at that time in the morning, but wishedhim good-night and left him with a better opinion of him than he had everhad till then.Wylie, when he was gone, drew a tumbler of neat spirits, drank half, andcarried the rest back to his work.Yet Wylie was a very sober man in a general way. Rum was his tool; nothis master.When Hazel came to think of it all next day, he did not feel quite soeasy as he had done. The inner skin! But, when Wylie withdrew his auger,the water had squirted in furiously. He felt it hard to believe that thiskeen jet of water could be caused by a small quantity that had found itsway between the skin of the ship and her copper, or her top booting; itseemed rather to be due to the direct pressure of the liquid monsteroutside.He went to the captain that afternoon, and first told him what he hadseen, offering no solution. The captain, on that occasion, was in anamphibious state; neither wet nor dry; and his reply was altogetherexceptional. He received the communication with pompous civility; thenswore a great oath, and said he would put the mate in irons. "Confoundthe lubber! he will be through the ship's bottom.""But, stop a moment," said Mr. Hazel, "it is only fair you should alsohear how he accounts for his proceeding."The captain listened attentively to the explanation, and altered histone. "Oh, that is a different matter," said he. "You need be under noalarm, sir; the thundering lubber knows what he is about, at that work.Why, he has been a ship's carpenter all his life. Him a seaman! Ifanything ever happens to me, and Joe Wylie is set to navigate this ship,then you may say your prayers. He isn't fit to sail a wash-tub across aduck-pond. But I'll tell you what it is," added this worthy, with morepomposity than neatness of articulation, "here's a respeckable passengerbrought me a report; do my duty to m' employers, and--take a look at thewell."He accordingly chalked a plumb-line, and went and sounded the well.There were eight inches of water. Hudson told him that was no more thanall ships contained from various causes: "In fact," said he, "our pumpssuck, and will not draw, at eight inches." Then suddenly grasping Mr.Hazel's hand, he said, in tearful accents, "Don't you trouble your headabout Joe Wylie, or any such scum. I'm skipper of the _Proserpine,_ and aman that does his duty to 'z employers. Mr. Hazel, sir, I'd come to mylast anchor in that well this moment, if my duty to m' employers requiredit. D-- my eyes if I wouldn't lie down there this minute, and never moveto all eternity and a day after, if it was my duty to m' employers!""No doubt," said Hazel dryly. "But I think you can serve your employersbetter in other parts of the ship." He then left him, with a piece ofadvice; "to keep his eye upon that Wylie."Mr. Hazel kept his own eye on Wylie so constantly, that at eleven o'clockP.M. he saw that worthy go into the captain's cabin with a quart bottleof rum.The coast was clear; the temptation great. These men then were stilldeceiving him with a feigned antagonism. He listened at the keyhole, notwithout some compunction; which, however, became less and less asfragments of the dialogue reached his ear.For a long time the only speaker was Hudson, and his discourse ran uponhis own exploits at sea. But suddenly Wylie's voice broke in with anunmistakable tone of superiority. "Belay all that chat, and listen to me.It is time we settled something. I'll hear what you have got to say; andthen you'll _do_ what _I_ say. Better keep your hands off the bottle aminute you have had enough for the present; this is business. I know youare good for jaw; but what are you game to do for the governor 's money?Anything?""More than you have ever seen or heard tell of, ye lubber," replied theirritated skipper. "Who has ever served his employers like Hiram Hudson?""Keep that song for your quarter-deck," retorted the mate,contemptuously. "No; on second thoughts, just tell me how you have servedyour employers, you old humbug. Give me chapter and verse to choose from.Come now, the _Neptune?"_"Well, the _Neptune;_ she caught fire a hundred leagues from land.""How came she to do that?""That is my business. Well, I put her head before the wind, and ran forthe Azores; and I stuck to her, sir, till she was as black as a coal, andwe couldn't stand on deck, but kept hopping like parched peas; and firebelching out of her portholes forward. Then we took to the boats, andsaved a few bales of silk by way of sample of her cargo, and got ashore;and she'd have come ashore too next tide and told tales, but somebodyleft a keg of gunpowder in the cabin, with a long fuse, and blew a holein her old ribs, that the water came in, and down she went, hissing liketen thousand sarpints, and nobody the wiser.""Who lighted the fuse, I wonder?" said Wylie."Didn't I tell ye it was 'Somebody'?" said Hudson. "Hand me the stiff."He replenished his glass, and, after taking a sip or two, asked Wylie ifhe had ever had the luck to be boarded by pirates."No," said Wylie. "Have you?""Ay; and they rescued me from a watery grave, as the lubbers call it. Yesee, I was employed by Downes & Co., down at the Havanna, and cleared forVera Cruz with some boxes of old worn-out printer's type.""To print psalm-books for the darkies, no doubt," suggested Wylie."Insured as specie," continued Hudson, ignoring the interruption. "Well,just at daybreak one morning, all of a sudden there was a rakish-lookingcraft on our weather-bow. Lets fly a nine-pounder across our forefoot,and was alongside before my men could tumble up from below. I got knockedinto the sea by the boom and fell between the ships; and the pirate hegot hold of me and poured hot grog down my throat to bring me to mysenses.""That is not what you use it for in general," said Wylie. "Civil sort ofpirate, though.""Pirate be d--d. That was my consort rigged out with a black flag, andmounted with four nine-pounders on one side, and five dummies on theother. He blustered a bit, and swore, and took our type and our cabbages(I complained to Downes ashore about the vagabond taking the vegetables),and ordered us to leeward under all canvas, and we never saw himagain--not till he had shaved off his mustaches, and called on Downes tocondole and say the varmint had chased his ship fifty leagues out of hercourse; but he had got clear of him. Downes complimented me publicly.Says he, 'This skipper boarded the pirate single-handed; only he jumpedshort, and fell between the two ships; and here he is by a miracle.' Thenhe takes out his handkerchief, and flops his head on my shoulder. 'Hismerciful preservation almost reconciles me to the loss of my gold,' saysthe thundering crocodile. Cleared seventy thousand dollars, he did, outof the Manhattan Marine, and gave the pirate and me but two hundredpounds between us both.""The _Rose?"_ said Wylie."What a hurry you are in! Pass the grog. Well, the _Rose;_ she lay offUshant. We canted her to wash the decks; lucky she had a carefulcommander; not like Kempenfelt, whose eye was in his pocket, and hisfingers held the pen, so he went to the bottom, with Lord knows how manymen. I noticed the squalls came very sudden; so I sent most of my menashore and got the boats ready in case of accident. A squall did strikeher, and she was on her beam-ends in a moment. We pulled ashore with twobales of silk by way of salvage, and sample of what warn't in her holdwhen she settled down. We landed; and the Frenchmen were dancing aboutwith excitement. 'Captain,' says one, 'you have much sang fraw.''Insured, munseer,' says I. 'Bone,' says he."Then there was the _Antelope,_ lost in charge of a pilot off theHooghly. I knew the water as well as he did. We were on the port tack,standing toward the shoal. Weather it, as we should have done next tack,and I should have failed in my duty to my employers. Anything but that!'Look out!' said I. 'Pilot, she fore-reaches in stays.' Pilot wassmoking; those sandhead pilots smoke in bed and asleep. He takes hiscigar out of his mouth for one moment. 'Ready about,' says he. 'Hands'bout ship. Helm's a-lee. Raise tacks and sheets.' Round she was cominglike a top. Pilot smoking. Just as he was going to haul the mainselSomebody tripped against him, and shoved the hot cigar in his eye. Hesung out and swore, and there was no mainsel haul. Ship in irons, tiderunning hard on to the shoal, and before we could clear away foranchoring, bump!--there she was hard and fast. A stiff breeze got up atsunrise, and she broke up. Next day I was sipping my grog and reading the_Bengal Courier,_ and it told the disastrous wreck of the brig_Antelope,_ wrecked in charge of a pilot; 'but no lives lost, and theowners fully insured.' Then there was the bark _Sally._ Why, you saw heryourself distressed on a lee shore.""Yes," said Wylie. "I was in that tub, the _Grampus,_ and we contrived toclaw off the Scillies; yet you, in your smart _Sally,_ got ashore. Whatluck!""Luck be blowed!" cried Hudson, angrily. "Somebody got into the chains tosound, and cut the weather halyards. Next tack the masts went over theside; and I had done my duty.""Lives were lost that time, eh?" said Wylie, gravely."What is that to you?" replied Hudson, with the sudden ire of a drunkenman. "Mind your own business. Pass me the bottle.""Yes, lives was lost; and always will be lost in sea-going ships, wherethe skipper does his duty. There was a sight more lost at Trafalgar,owing to every man doing his duty. Lives lost, ye lubber? And why notmine? Because their time was come and mine wasn't. For I'll tell you onething, Joe Wylie--if she takes fire and runs before the wind till she isas black as coal, and belching flame through all her port-holes, and thenexplodes, and goes aloft in ten thousand pieces no bigger than my hat, oryour knowledge of navigation, Hudson is the last man to leave her. Duty!If she goes on her beam-ends and founders, Hudson sees the last of her,and reports it to his employers. Duty! If she goes grinding on Scilly,Hudson is the last man to leave her bones. Duty! Some day perhaps I shallbe swamped myself along with the craft. I have escaped till now, owing tonot being insured; but if ever my time should come, and you should getclear, promise me, Joe, to see the owners, and tell 'em Hudson did hisduty."Here a few tears quenched his noble ardor for a moment. But he soonrecovered, and said, with some little heat, "You have got the bottleagain. I never saw such a fellow to get hold of the bottle. Come, here's'Duty to our employers!' And now I'll tell you how we managed with the_Carysbrook,_ and the _Amelia."_This promise was followed by fresh narratives; in particular, of a vesselhe had run upon the Florida reef at night, where wreckers had beenretained in advance to look out for signals, and come on board andquarrel on pretense and set fire to the vessel, insured at thrice hervalue.Hudson got quite excited with the memory of these exploits, and told eachsuccessive feat louder and louder.But now it was Wylie's turn. "Well," said he, very gravely, "all this waschild's play."There was a pause that marked Hudson's astonishment. Then he broke out,"Child's play, ye lubber! If you had been there your gills would havebeen as white as your Sunday shirt; and a d--d deal whiter.""Come, be civil," said Wylie, "I tell you all the ways you have told meare too suspicious. Our governor is a highflyer. He pays like a prince,and, in return, he must not be blown on, if it is ever so little.'Wylie,' says he, 'a breath of suspicion would kill me.' 'Make it somuch,' says I, 'and that breath shall never blow on you. No, no, skipper;none of those ways will do for us; they have all been worked twice toooften. It must be done in fair weather, and in a way-- Fill your glassand I'll fill mine-- Capital rum this. You talk of my gills turningwhite; before long we shall see whose keeps their color best, mine oryours, my boy."There was a silence, during which Hudson was probably asking himself whatWylie meant; for presently he broke out in a loud but somewhat quiveringvoice: "Why, you mad, drunken devil of a ship's carpenter, red-hot fromhell, I see what you are at, now; you are going--""Hush!" cried Wylie, alarmed in his turn. "Is this the sort of thing tobellow out for the watch to hear? Whisper, now."This was followed by the earnest mutterings of two voices. In vain didthe listener send his very soul into his ear to hear. He could catch nosingle word. Yet he could tell, by the very tones of the speakers, thatthe dialogue was one of mystery and importance.Here was a situation at once irritating and alarming; but there was nohelp for it. The best thing, now, seemed to be to withdraw unobserved,and wait for another opportunity. He did so; and he had not long retired,when the mate came out staggering and flushed with liquor, and that was athing that had never occurred before. He left the cabin door open andwent into his own room.Soon after sounds issued from the cabin--peculiar sounds, somethingbetween grunting and snoring.Mr. Hazel came and entered the cabin. There he found the captain of the_Proserpine_ in a position very unfavorable to longevity. His legs werecrooked over the seat of his chair, and his head was on the ground. Hishandkerchief was tight round his neck, and the man himself dead drunk,and purple in the face.Mr. Hazel instantly undid his stock, on which the gallant seaman mutteredinarticulately. He then took his feet off the chair and laid them on theground, and put the empty bottle under the animal's neck.But he had no sooner done all this than he had a serious misgiving. Wouldnot this man's death have been a blessing? Might not his life provefatal?The thought infuriated him, and he gave the prostrate figure a heavy kickthat almost turned it over, and the words, "Duty to employers," gurgledout of its mouth directly.It really seemed as if these sounds were independent of the mind, andresided at the tip of Hudson's tongue, so that a thorough good kickcould, at any time, shake them out of his inanimate body.Thus do things ludicrous and things terrible mingle in the real world;only to those who are in the arena, the ludicrous passes unnoticed, beingovershadowed by its terrible neighbor.And so it was with Hazel. He saw nothing absurd in all this; and in thatprostrate, insensible hog, commanding the ship, forsooth, and carryingall their lives in his hands, he saw the mysterious and alarming only;saw them so, and felt them, that he lay awake all night thinking what heshould do, and early next day he went into the mate's cabin, and said tohim: "Mr. Wylie, in any other ship I should speak to the captain, and notto the mate; but here that would be no use, for you are the master, andhe is your servant.""Don't tell him so, sir, for he doesn't think small beer of himself.""I shall waste no more words on him. It is to you I speak, and you know Ispeak the truth. Here is a ship, in which, for certain reasons known toyourself, the captain is under the mate.""Well, sir," said Wylie good-humoredly, "it is no use trying to deceive agentleman like you. Our skipper is an excellent seaman, but he has got afault." Then Wylie imitated, with his hand, the action of a personfilling his glass."And you are here to keep him sober, eh?"Wylie nodded."Then why do you ply him with liquor?""I don't, sir.""You do. I have seen you do it a dozen times. And last night you took ruminto his room, and made him so drunk, he would have died where he lay ifI had not loosed his handkerchief.""I am sorry to hear that, sir; but he was sober when I left him. The foolmust have got to the bottle the moment I was gone.""But that bottle you put in his way; I saw you. And what was your object?To deaden his conscience with liquor, his and your own, while you madehim your fiendish proposal. Man, man, do you believe in God, and in ajudgment to come for the deeds done in the body, that you can plan incold blood to destroy a vessel with nineteen souls on board, besides thelive stock, the innocent animals that God pitied and spared when heraised his hand in wrath over Nineveh of old?"While the clergyman was speaking, with flashing eyes and commandingvoice, the seaman turned ashy pale, and drew his shoulders together likea cat preparing to defend her life."I plan to destroy a vessel, sir! You never heard me say such a word; anddon't you hint such a thing in the ship, or you will get yourself intotrouble.""That depends on you.""How so, sir?""I have long suspected you.""You need not tell me that, sir.""But I have not communicated my suspicions. And now that they arecertainties, I come first to you. In one word, will you forego yourintention, since it is found out?""How can I forego what never was in my head?" said Wylie. "Cast away theship! Why, there's no land within two thousand miles. Founder a vessel inthe Pacific! Do you think my life is not as sweet to me as yours is toyou?"Wylie eyed him keenly to see the effect of these words, and, by a puzzledexpression that came over his face, saw at once he had assumed a moreexact knowledge than he really possessed.Hazel replied that he had said nothing about foundering the ship; butthere were many ways of destroying one. "For instance," said he, "I knowhow the _Neptune_ was destroyed--and so do you; how the _Rose_ and the_Antelope_ were cast away--and so do you."At this enumeration Wylie lost his color and self-possession for amoment; he saw Hazel had been listening. Hazel followed up his blow."Promise me now, by all you hold sacred, to forego this villainy; and Ihold my tongue. Attempt to defy me, or to throw dust in my eyes, and I goinstantly among the crew, and denounce both you and Hudson to them.""Good Heavens!" cried Wylie, in unfeigned terror. "Why, the men wouldmutiny on the spot.""I can't help that," said Hazel, firmly; and took a step toward the door."Stop a bit," said the mate. "Don't be in such a 'nation hurry; for, ifyou do, it will be bad for me, but worse for you." The above was said sogravely and with such evident sincerity that Mr. Hazel was struck andshowed it. Wylie followed up that trifling advantage. "Sit down a minute,sir, if you please, and listen to me. You never saw a mutiny on boardship, I'll be bound. It is a worse thing than any gale that ever blew;begins fair enough, sometimes; but how does it end? In breaking into thespirit-room and drinking to madness, plundering the ship, ravishing thewomen, and cutting a throat or so for certain. You don't seem so fond ofthe picture as you was of the idea. And then they might turn a deaf earto you after all. Ship is well found in all stores; provisions served outfreely; men in good humor; and I have got their ear. And now I'll tellyou why it won't suit your little game to blacken me to the crew, uponthe bare chance of a mutiny." He paused for a moment, then resumed in alower tone, and revealed himself the extraordinary man he was."You see, sir," said he, "when a man is very ready to suspect me, Ialways suspect him. Now you was uncommon ready to suspect me. You didn'twait till you came on board; you began the game ashore. Oh, what, thatmakes you open one eye, does it? You thought I didn't know you again.Knew you, my man, the moment you came aboard. I never forget a face; anddisguises don't pass on me."It was now Hazel's turn to look anxious and discomposed."So, then, the moment I saw you suspected me I was down upon you. Well,you come aboard under false colors. We didn't want a chap like you in theship; but you would come. 'What is the bloke after?' says I, and watches.You was so intent suspecting me of this, that, and t'other, that youunguarded yourself, and that is common too. I'm blowed if it isn't thelady you are after. With all my heart; only she might do better, and Idon't see how she could do worse, unless she went to Old Nick for a mate.Now, I'll tell you what it is, my man. I've been in trouble myself, anddon't want to be hard on a poor devil, just because he sails under analias, and lies as near the wind as he can, to weather on the beaks andthe bobbies. But one good turn deserves another. Keep your dirtysuspicions to yourself; for if you dare to open your lips to the men, infive minutes, or less than that, you shall be in irons and confined toyour cabin; and we'll put you ashore at the first port that flies theBritish flag, and hand you over to the authorities, till one of herMajesty's cruisers sends in a boat for you."At this threat Mr. Hazel hung his head in confusion and dismay."Come, get out of my cabin, Parson Alias," shouted the mate; "and belayyour foul tongue in this ship, and don't make an enemy of Joe Wylie, aman that will eat you up else, and spit you out again, and never brag.Sheer off, I say, and be d--d to you."Mr. Hazel, with a pale face and sick heart, looked aghast at thisdangerous man, who could be fox or tiger, as the occasion demanded.Surprised, alarmed, outwitted and out-menaced, he retired with disorderedcountenance and uneven steps and hid himself in his own cabin.The more he weighed the whole situation, the more clearly did he see thathe was utterly powerless in the hands of Wylie. A skipper is an emperor;and Hudson had the power to iron him, and set him on shore at the nearestport. The right to do it was another matter; but even on that head Wyliecould furnish a plausible excuse for the act. Retribution, if it came atall, would not be severe, and would be three or four years coming. Andwho fears it much, when it, is so dilatory, and so weak, and so doubtfulinto the bargain?He succumbed in silence for two days; and then, in spite of Wylie'sthreat, he made one timid attempt to approach the subject with Welch andCooper; but a sailor came up instantly, and sent them forward to reeftopsails. And, whenever he tried to enter into conversation with thepair, some sailor or other was sure to come up and listen.Then he saw that he was spotted; or, as we say nowadays, picketed.He was at his wit's end.He tried his last throw. He wrote a few lines to Miss Rolleston,requesting an interview. Aware of the difficulties he had to encounterhere, he stilled his heart by main force, and wrote in terms carefullymeasured. He begged her to believe he had no design to intrude upon her,without absolute necessity, and for her own good. Respect for her ownwishes forbade this, and also his self-respect."But," said he, "I have made a terrible discovery. The mate and thecaptain certainly intend to cast away this ship. No doubt they will tryand not sacrifice their own lives and ours; but risk them they must, inthe very nature of things. Before troubling you, I have tried all Icould, in the way of persuasion and menace; but am defeated. So now itrests with you. You alone can save us all. I will tell you how, if youwill restrain your repugnance, and accord me a short interview. Need Isay that no other subject shall be introduced by me? In England, shouldwe ever reach it, I may perhaps try to take measures to regain your goodopinion; but here, I am aware, that is impossible; and I shall make noattempt in that direction, upon my honor."To this came a prompt and feminine reply."The ship is Mr. Arthur Wardlaw's. The captain and the mate are able men,appointed by him. Your suspicions of these poor men are calumnies, and ofa piece with your other monstrous slanders."I really must insist on your holding no further communications of anysort with one to whom your character is revealed and odious.H. R."This letter benumbed his heart at first. A letter? It was a blow; a blowfrom her he loved, and she hated him!His long-suffering love gave way at last. What folly and crueltycombined! He could no longer make allowances for the spite of a womanwhose lover had been traduced. Rage and despair seized him; he bit hisnails and tore his hair with fury, and prayed Heaven to help him hate heras she deserved, "the blind, insolent idiot!" Yes, these bitter wordsactually came out of his mouth, in a torrent of injury.But to note down all he said in his rage would be useless; and mightmislead, for this was a gust of fury; and, while it lasted, thelong-suffering man was no longer himself.As a proof how little this state of mind was natural to him, it stirredup all the bile in his body, and brought on a severe attack of yellowjaundice, accompanied by the settled dejection that marks that disorder.Meantime the _Proserpine_ glided on, with a fair wind, and a contentedcrew. She was well found in stores, and they were served outungrudgingly.Every face on board beamed with jollity, except poor Hazel's. He creptabout, yellow as a guinea; a very scarecrow.The surgeon, a humane man, urged him to drink sherry, and take strongexercise.But persons afflicted with that distressing malady are obstinately setagainst those things which tend to cure it; this is a feature of thedisease. Mr. Hazel was no exception. And then his heart had received somany blows it had no power left to resist the depressing effect of hisdisorder. He took no exercise; he ate little food. He lay, listless anddejected, about the deck, and let disease do what it pleased with him.The surgeon shook his head and told Hudson the parson was booked."And good riddance of bad rubbish!" was that worthy's gracious comment.The ship now encountered an adverse gale, and for three whole days wasunder close-reefed topsails; she was always a wet ship under stress ofweather, and she took in a good deal of water on this occasion. On thefourth day it fell calm, and Captain Hudson, having examined the well andfound three feet of water, ordered the men to the pumps.After working through one watch the well was sounded again, and the waterwas so much reduced that the gangs were taken off; and the ship being nowbecalmed and the weather lovely, the men were allowed to dance upon deckto the boatswain's fiddle.While this pastime went on, the sun, large and red, reached the horizon,and diffused a roseate light over the entire ocean.Not one of the current descriptions of heaven approached the actualgrandeur and beauty of the blue sky, flecked with ruby and gold, and itsliquid mirror that lay below, calm, dimpled and glorified by thattranslucent, rosy tint.While the eye was yet charmed with this enchanting bridal of the sea andsky, and the ear amused with the merry fiddle and the nimble feet thattapped the sounding deck so deftly at every note, Cooper, who had beensounding the well, ran forward all of a sudden and flung a thunderbolt inthe midst."A LEAK!"CHAPTER X.THE fiddle ended in mid-tune, and the men crowded aft with anxious faces.The captain sounded the well and found three feet and a half water in it.He ordered all hands to the pumps.They turned to with a good heart, and pumped, watch and watch, tilldaybreak.Their exertions counteracted the leak, but did no more; the water in thewell was neither more nor less, perceptibly.This was a relief to their minds, so far; but the situation was a veryserious one. Suppose foul weather should come, and the vessel ship waterfrom above as well!Now all those who were not on the pumps set to work to find out the leakand stop it if possible. With candles in their hands they crept about theribs of the ship, narrowly inspecting every corner, and applying theirears to every suspected place, if haply they might hear the water comingin. The place where Hazel had found Wylie at work was examined along withthe rest; but neither there nor anywhere else could the leak bediscovered. Yet the water was still coming in and required unremittinglabor to keep it under. It was then suggested by Wylie, and the opiniongradually gained ground, that some of the seams had opened in the lategale and were letting in the water by small but numerous, apertures.Faces began to look cloudy; and Hazel, throwing off his lethargy, tookhis spell at the main pump with the rest.When his gang was relieved he went away, bathed in perspiration, and,leaning over the well, sounded it.While thus employed, the mate came behind him, with his cat-like step,and said, "See what has come on us with your forebodings! It is theunluckiest thing in the world to talk about losing a ship when she is atsea.""You are a more dangerous man on board a ship than I am," was Hazel'sprompt reply.The well gave an increase of three inches. Mr. Hazel now showed excellentqualities. He worked like a horse; and, finding the mate skulking, hereproached him before the men, and, stripping himself naked to the waist,invited him to do a man's duty. The mate, thus challenged, complied witha scowl.They labored for their lives, and the quantity of water they dischargedfrom the ship was astonishing; not less than hundred and ten tons everyhour.They gained upon the leak--only two inches; but, in the struggle forlife, this was an immense victory. It was the turn of the tide.A slight breeze sprung up from the southwest, and the captain ordered themen from the buckets to make all sail on the ship, the pumps still going.When this was done, he altered the ship's course and put her right beforethe wind, steering for the island of Juan Fernandez, distant elevenhundred miles or thereabouts.Probably it was the best thing he could do, in that awful waste of water.But its effect on the seamen was bad. It was like giving in. They got alittle disheartened and flurried; and the cold, passionless water seizedthe advantage. It is possible, too, that the motion of the ship throughthe sea aided the leak.The _Proserpine_ glided through the water all night, like someterror-stricken creature, and the incessant pumps seemed to be her poorheart, beating loud with breathless fear.At daybreak she had gone a hundred and twenty miles. But this wasbalanced by a new and alarming feature. The water from the pumps nolonger came up pure, but mixed with what appeared to be blood.This got redder and redder, and struck terror into the more superstitiousof the crew.Even Cooper, whose heart was stout, leaned over the bulwarks and eyed thered stream, gushing into the sea from the lee scuppers, and said aloud,"Ay, bleed to death, ye bitch! We shan't be long behind ye."Hazel inquired, and found the ship had a quantity of dye-wood among hercargo. He told the men this, and tried to keep up their hearts by hiswords and his example.He succeeded with some; but others shook their heads. And by and by, evenwhile he was working double tides for them as well as for himself,ominous murmurs met his ear. "Parson aboard!" "Man aboard, with t'otherworld in his face!" And there were sinister glances to match.He told this, with some alarm, to Welch and Cooper. They promised tostand by him; and Welch told him it was all the mate's doings; he hadgone among the men and poisoned them.The wounded vessel, with her ever-beating heart, had run three hundredmiles on the new tack. She had almost ceased to bleed; but what was asbad, or worse, small fragments of her cargo and stores came up with thewater, and their miscellaneous character showed how deeply the sea hadnow penetrated.This, and their great fatigue, began to demoralize the sailors. The pumpsand buckets were still plied, but it was no longer with the uniformmanner of brave and hopeful men. Some stuck doggedly to their work, butothers got flurried and ran from one thing to another. Now and then a manwould stop and burst out crying; then to work again in a desperate way.One or two lost heart altogether, and had to be driven. Finally, one ortwo succumbed under the unremitting labor. Despair crept over others.Their features began to change, so much so that several countenances werehardly recognizable, and each, looking in the other's troubled face, sawhis own fate pictured there.Six feet water in the hold!The captain, who had been sober beyond his time, now got dead drunk.The mate took the command. On hearing this, Welch and Cooper left thepumps. Wylie ordered them back. They refused, and coolly lighted theirpipes. A violent altercation took place, which was brought to a close byWelch."It is no use pumping the ship," said he. "She is doomed. D'ye think weare blind, my mate and me? You got the long-boat ready for yourselfbefore ever the leak was sprung. Now get the cutter ready for my mate andme."At these simple words Wylie lost color, and walked aft without a word.Next day there were seven feet water in the hold, and quantities of breadcoming up through the pumps.Wylie ordered the men from the pumps to the boats. The long-boat wasprovisioned and lowered. While she was towing astern, the cutter wasprepared, and the ship left to fill.All this time Miss Rolleston had been kept in the dark, not as to thedanger, but as to its extent. Great was her surprise when Mr. Hazelentered her cabin and cast an ineffable look of pity on her.She looked up surprised, and then angry. "How dare you?" she began.He waved his hand in a sorrowful but commanding way. "Oh, this is no timefor prejudice or temper. The ship is sinking. We are going into theboats. Pray make preparations. Here is a list I have written of thethings you ought to take. We may be weeks at sea in an open boat." Then,seeing her dumfounded, he caught up her carpet-bag and threw her workboxinto it for a beginning. He then laid hands upon some of her preservedmeats and marmalade and carried them off to his own cabin.His mind then flew back to his reading, and passed in rapid review allthe wants that men had endured in open boats.He got hold of Welch and told him to be sure and see there was plenty ofspare canvas on board, and sailing needles, scissors, etc. Also threebags of biscuit, and, above all, a cask of water.He himself ran all about the ship, including the mate's cabin, in searchof certain tools he thought would be wanted.Then to his own cabin, to fill his carpet-bag.There was little time to spare; the ship was low in the water, and themen abandoning her. He flung the things into his bag, fastened and lockedit, strapped up his blankets for her use, flung on his pea-jacket, andturned the handle of his door to run out.The door did not open!He pushed it. It did not yield!He rushed at it. It was fast!He uttered a cry of rage and flung himself at it.Horror! It was immovable!CHAPTER XI.THE fearful, the sickening truth burst on him in all its awfulsignificance.Some miscreant or madman had locked the door, and so fastened him to thesinking ship, at a time when, in the bustle, the alarm, the selfishness,all would be apt to forget him and leave him to his death.He tried the door in every way, he hammered at it; he shouted, he raged,he screamed. In vain. Unfortunately the door of this cabin was of veryunusual strength and thickness.Then he took up one of those great augers he had found in the mate'scabin, and bored a hole in the door; through this hole he fired hispistol, and then screamed for help. "I am shut up in the cabin. I shallbe drowned. Oh, for Christ's sake, save me! save me!" and a cold sweat ofterror poured down his whole body.What is that?The soft rustle of a woman's dress.Oh, how he thanked God for that music, and the hope it gave him!It comes toward him; it stops, the key is turned, the dress rustles away,swift as a winged bird; he dashes at the door; it flies open.Nobody was near. He recovered his courage in part, fetched out his bagand his tools, and ran across to the starboard side. There he found thecaptain lowering Miss Rolleston, with due care, into the cutter, and theyoung lady crying; not at being shipwrecked, if you please, but at beingdeserted by her maid. Jane Holt, at this trying moment, had deserted hermistress for her husband. This was natural; but, as is the rule withpersons of that class, she had done this in the silliest and cruelestway. Had she given half an hour's notice of her intention, Donovan mighthave been on board the cutter with her and her mistress. But no; being aliar and a fool, she must hide her husband to the last moment, and thendesert her mistress. The captain, then, was comforting Miss Rolleston,and telling her she should have her maid with her eventually, when Hazelcame. He handed down his own bag, and threw the blankets into thestern-sheets. Then went down himself, and sat on the midship thwart."Shove off," said the captain; and they fell astern.But Cooper, with a boat-hook, hooked on to the long-boat; and the dyingship towed them both.Five minutes more elapsed, and the captain did not come down, so Wyliehailed him.There was no answer. Hudson had gone into the mate's cabin. Wylie waiteda minute, then hailed again. "Hy! on deck there!""Hullo!" cried the captain, at last."Why didn't you come in the cutter?"The captain crossed his arms and leaned over the stern."Don't you know that Hiram Hudson is always the last to leave a sinkingship?""Well, you _are_ the last," said Wylie. "So now come on board thelong-boat at once. I dare not tow in her wake much longer, to be suckedin when she goes down.""Come on board your craft and desert my own?" said Hudson, disdainfully."Know my duty to m' employers better."These words alarmed the mate. "Curse it all!" he cried; "the fool hasbeen and got some more rum. Fifty guineas to the man that will shin upthe tow-rope and throw that madman into the sea; then we can pick him up.He swims like a cork."A sailor instantly darted forward to the rope. But, unfortunately, Hudsonheard this proposal, and it enraged him. He got to his cutlass. Thesailor drew the boat under the ship's stern, but the drunken skipperflourished his cutlass furiously over his head. "Board me! ye pirates!the first that lays a finger on my bulwarks, off goes his hand at thewrist." Suiting the action to the word, he hacked at the tow-rope sovigorously that it gave way, and the boats fell astern.Helen Rolleston uttered a shriek of dismay and pity. "Oh, save him!" shecried."Make sail!" cried Cooper; and, in a few seconds, they got all her canvasset upon the cutter.It seemed a hopeless chase for these shells to sail after that dyingmonster with her cloud of canvas all drawing, alow and aloft.But it did not prove so. The gentle breeze was an advantage to lightcraft, and the dying _Proserpine_ was full of water, and could onlycrawl.After a few moments of great anxiety the boats crept up, the cutter onher port and the long-boat on her starboard quarter.Wylie ran forward, and, hailing Hudson, implored him, in the friendliesttones, to give himself a chance. Then tried him by his vanity, "Come, andcommand the boats, old fellow. How can we navigate them on the Pacificwithout _you?"_Hudson was now leaning over the taffrail utterly drunk. He made no replyto the mate, but merely waved his cutlass feebly in one hand, and hisbottle in the other, and gurgled out, "Duty to m' employers."Then Cooper, without a word, double reefed the cutter's mainsail and toldWelch to keep as close to the ship's quarter as he dare. Wylieinstinctively did the same, and the three craft crawled on in solemn anddeadly silence, for nearly twenty minutes.The wounded ship seemed to receive a death-blow. She stopped dead, andshook.The next moment she pitched gently forward, and her bows went under thewater, while her after-part rose into the air, and revealed to those inthe cutter two splintered holes in her run, just below the water-line.The next moment her stern settled down; the sea yawned horribly, thegreat waves of her own making rushed over her upper deck, and the loftymasts and sails, remaining erect, went down with sad majesty into thedeep. And nothing remained but the bubbling and foaming of the voraciouswater, that had swallowed up the good ship, and her cargo, and herdrunken master.All stood up in the boats, ready to save him. But either his cutlass sunkhim, or the suction of so great a body drew him down. He was seen no morein this world.A loud sigh broke from every living bosom that witnessed that terriblecatastrophe.It was beyond words; and none were uttered, except by Cooper, who spokeso seldom; yet now three words of terrible import burst from him, and,uttered in his loud, deep voice, rang like the sunk ship's knell over thestill bubbling water."SCUTTLED--BY GOD!"CHAPTER XII."HOLD your tongue," said Welch, with an oath.Mr. Hazel looked at Miss Rolleston, and she at him. It was a momentaryglance, and her eyes sank directly, and filled with patient tears.For the first few minutes after the _Proserpine_ went down the survivorssat benumbed, as if awaiting their turn to be ingulfed.They seemed so little, and the _Proserpine_ so big; yet she was swallowedbefore their eyes, like a crumb. They lost, for a few moments, all ideaof escaping.But, true it is, that, "while there's life there's hope"; and, as soon astheir hearts began to beat again, their eyes roved round the horizon andtheir elastic minds recoiled against despair.This was rendered easier by the wonderful beauty of the weather. Therewere men there who had got down from a sinking ship into boats heavingand tossing against her side in a gale of wind, and yet been saved; andhere all was calm and delightful. To be sure, in those other shipwrecksland had been near, and their greatest peril was over when once the boatsgot clear of the distressed ship without capsizing. Here was no immediateperil; but certain death menaced them, at an uncertain distance.Their situation was briefly this. Should it come on to blow a gale, theseopen boats, small and loaded, could not hope to live. Therefore they hadtwo chances for life, and no more. They must either make land--or bepicked up at sea--before the weather changed.But how? The nearest known land was the group of islands called JuanFernandez, and they lay somewhere to leeward, but distant at least ninehundred miles; and, should they prefer the other chance, then they mustbeat three hundred miles and more to windward; for Hudson, underratingthe leak, as is supposed, had run the _Proserpine_ fully that distanceout of the track of trade.Now the ocean is a highway--in law; but, in fact, it contains a fewhighways and millions of byways; and, once a cockleshell gets into thosebyways, small indeed is its chance of being seen and picked up by anysea-going vessel.Wylie, who was leading, lowered his sail, and hesitated between the twocourses we have indicated. However, on the cutter coming up with him, heordered Cooper to keep her head northeast, and so run all night. He thenmade all the sail he could, in the same direction, and soon outsailed thecutter. When the sun went down, he was about a mile ahead of her.Just before sunset Mr. Hazel made a discovery that annoyed him very much.He found that Welch had put only one bag of biscuit, a ham, a keg ofspirit and a small barrel of water on board the cutter.He remonstrated with him sharply. Welch replied that it was all right;the cutter being small, he had put the rest of her provisions on boardthe long-boat."On board the long-boat!" said Hazel, with a look of wonder. "You haveactually made our lives depend upon that scoundrel Wylie again. Youdeserve to be flung into the sea. You have no forethought yourself, yetyou will not be guided by those that have it."Welch hung his head a little at these reproaches. However, he replied,rather sullenly, that it was only for one night; they could signal thelong-boat in the morning and get the other bags and the cask out of her.But Mr. Hazel was not to be appeased. "The morning! Why, she sails threefeet to our two. How do you know he won't run away from us? I neverexpect to get within ten miles of him again. We know him; and he knows weknow him."Cooper got up and patted Mr. Hazel on the shoulder soothingly. "Boat-hookaft," said he to Welch.He then, by an ingenious use of the boat-hook and some of the sparecanvas, contrived to set out a studding-sail on the other side of themast.Hazel thanked him warmly. "But, oh, Cooper! Cooper!" said he, "I'd giveall I have in the world if that bread and water were on board the cutterinstead of the long-boat."The cutter had now two wings instead of one; the water bubbling loudunder her bows marked her increased speed, and all fear of being greatlyoutsailed by her consort began to subside.A slight sea-fret came on and obscured the sea in part; but they had agood lantern and compass, and steered the course exactly all night,according to Wylie's orders, changing the helmsman every four hours.Mr. Hazel, without a word, put a rug round Miss Rolleston's shoulders,and another round her feet."Oh, not both, sir, please," said she."Am I to be disobeyed by everybody?" said he.Then she submitted in silence, and in a certain obsequious way that wasquite new and well calculated to disarm anger.Sooner or later all slept, except the helmsman.At daybreak Mr. Hazel was wakened by a loud hail from a man in the bows.All the sleepers started up."Long-boat not in sight!"It was too true. The ocean was blank. Not a sail, large or small, insight.Many voices spoke at once."He has carried on till he has capsized her.""He has given us the slip."Unwilling to believe so great a calamity, every eye peered and stared allover the sea. In vain. Not a streak that could be a boat's hull, not aspeck that could be a sail.The little cutter was alone upon the ocean. Alone, with scarcely twodays' provisions, nine hundred miles from land, and four hundred miles toleeward of the nearest sea-road.Hazel, seeing his worst forebodings realized, sat down in moody, bitter,and boding silence.Of the other men some raged and cursed. Some wept aloud.The lady, more patient, put her hands together and prayed to Him who madethe sea and all that therein is. Yet her case was the cruelest. For shewas by nature more timid than the men, yet she must share their desperateperil. And then to be alone with all these men, and one of them had toldher he loved her, and hated the man she was betrothed to! Shame torturedthis delicate creature, as well as fear. Happy for her that of late, andonly of late, she had learned to pray in earnest. _"Qui precari novit,premi potest, non potest opprimi."_It was now a race between starvation and drowning, and either way deathstared them in the face.CHAPTER XIII.THE long-boat was, at this moment, a hundred miles to windward of thecutter.The fact is that Wylie, the evening before, had been secretly perplexedas to the best course. He had decided to run for the island; but he wasnot easy under his own decision; and, at night, he got more and morediscontented with it. Finally, at nine o'clock P.M., he suddenly gave theorder to luff, and tack; and by daybreak he was very near the place wherethe _Proserpine_ went down, whereas the cutter, having run before thewind all night, was, at least, a hundred miles to leeward of him.Not to deceive the reader, or let him, for a moment, think we do businessin monsters, we will weigh this act of Wylie's justly.It was just a piece of iron egotism. He preferred, for himself, thechance of being picked up by a vessel. He thought it was about a hair'sbreadth better than running for an island, as to whose bearing he was notvery clear, after all.But he was not sure he was taking the best or safest course. The cuttermight be saved, after all, and the long-boat lost.Meantime he was not sorry of an excuse to shake off the cutter. Shecontained one man at least who knew he had scuttled the _Proserpine;_ andtherefore it was all-important to him to get to London before her andreceive the three thousand pounds which was to be his reward for thatabominable act.But the way to get to London before Mr. Hazel, or else to the bottom ofthe Pacific before him, was to get back into the searoad at all hazards.He was not aware that the cutter's water and biscuit were on board hisboat; nor did he discover this till noon next day. And, on making thisfearful discovery, he showed himself human. He cried out, with an oath,"What have I done? I have damned myself to all eternity!"He then ordered the boat to be put before the wind again; but the menscowled, and not one stirred a finger; and he saw the futility of this,and did not persist, but groaned aloud, and then sat staring wildly.Finally, like a true sailor, he got to the rum, and stupefied hisagitated conscience for a time.While he lay drunk at the bottom of the boat his sailors carried out hislast instructions, beating southward right in the wind's eye.Five days they beat to windward, and never saw a sail. Then it fell deadcalm; and so remained for three days more.The men began to suffer greatly from cramps, owing to their number andconfined position. During the calm they rowed all day, and with this anda light westerly breeze that sprung up, they got into the sea-road again.But, having now sailed three hundred and fifty miles to the southward,they found a great change in the temperature. The nights were so coldthat they were fain to huddle together, to keep a little warmth in theirbodies.On the fifteenth day of their voyage it began to rain and blow, and thenthey were never a whole minute out of peril. Hand forever on the sheet,eye on the waves, to ease her at the right moment; and with all this carethe spray eternally flying half way over her mast, and often a body ofwater making a clean breach over her, and the men bailing night and daywith their very hats, or she could not have lived an hour.At last, when they were almost dead with wet, cold, fatigue and danger, avessel came in sight and crept slowly up, about two miles to windward ofthe distressed boat. With the heave of the waters they could see littlemore than her sails; but they ran up a bright bandanna handkerchief totheir masthead; and the ship made them out. She hoisted Dutch colors,and--continued her course.Then the poor abandoned creatures wept and raved, and cursed in theirfrenzy, glaring after that cruel, shameless man who could do such an act,yet hoist a color, and show of what nation he was the native--and thedisgrace.But one of them said not a word. This was Wylie. He sat shivering, andremembered how he had abandoned the cutter, and all on board. Loud sighsbroke from his laboring breast; but not a word. Yet one word was everpresent to his mind; and seemed written in fire on the night of clouds,and howled in his ears by the wind--Retribution!And now came a dirty night--to men on ships; a fearful night to men inboats. The sky black, the sea on fire with crested billows, that brokeover them every minute; their light was washed out; their provisionsdrenched and spoiled; bail as they would, the boat was always filling. Upto their knees in water; cold as ice, blinded with spray, deafened withroaring billows, they tossed and tumbled in a fiery foaming hell ofwaters, and still, though despairing, clung to their lives, and bailedwith their hats unceasingly.Day broke, and the first sight it revealed to them was a brig to windwardstaggering along, and pitching under close-reefed topsails.They started up, and waved their hats, and cried aloud. But the windcarried their voices to leeward, and the brig staggered on.They ran up their little signal of distress; but still the ship staggeredon.Then the miserable men shook hands all round, and gave themselves up forlost.But, at this moment, the brig hoisted a vivid flag all stripes and stars,and altered her course a point or two.She crossed the boat's track a mile ahead, and her people looked over thebulwarks, and waved their hats to encourage those tossed and desperatemen.Having thus given them the weather-gage, the brig hove to for them.They ran down to her and crept under her lee; down came ropes to them,held by friendly hands, and friendly faces shone down at them. Eagergrasps seized each as he went up the ship's side, and so, in a very shorttime, they sent the woman up, and the rest being all sailors and cleveras cats, they were safe on board the whaling brig _Maria,_ CaptainSlocum, of Nantucket, U. S.Their log, compass and instruments were also saved.The boat was cast adrift, and was soon after seen bottom upward on thecrest of a wave.The good Samaritan in command of the _Maria_ supplied them with dryclothes out of the ship's stores, good food, and medical attendance,which was much needed, their legs and feet being in a deplorablecondition, and their own surgeon crippled. A southeasterly gale inducedthe American skipper to give Cape Horn a wide berth, and the _Maria_ soonfound herself three degrees south of that perilous coast. There sheencountered field-ice. In this labyrinth they dodged and worried foreighteen days, until a sudden chop in the wind gave the captain a chance,of which he promptly availed himself; and in forty hours they sightedTerra del Fuego.During this time the rescued crew, having recovered from the effects oftheir hardships, fell into the work of the ship, and took their turnswith the Yankee seamen. The brig was short-handed; but now, trimmed andhandled by a full crew with the _Proserpine's_ men, who were first-classseamen, and worked with a will, because work was no longer a duty, sheexhibited a speed the captain had almost forgotten was in the craft. Nowspeed at sea means economy, for every day added to a voyage is so muchoff the profits. Slocum was part owner of the vessel, and shrewdly aliveto the value of the seamen. When about three hundred miles south ofBuenos Ayres, Wylie proposed that they should be landed there, fromwhence they might be transshipped to a vessel bound for home.This was objected to by Slocum, on the ground that, by such a deviationfrom his course, he must lose three days, and the port dues at BuenosAyres were heavy.Wylie undertook that the house of Wardlaw & Son should indemnify the brigfor all expenses and losses incurred.Still the American hesitated; at last he honestly told Wylie he wished tokeep the men; he liked them, they liked him. He had sounded them, andthey had no objection to join his ship and sign articles for a threeyears' whaling voyage, provided they did not thereby forfeit the wages towhich they would be entitled on reaching Liverpool. Wylie went forwardand asked the men if they would take service with the Yankee captain. Allbut three expressed their desire to do so; these three had families inEngland, and refused. The mate gave the others a release, and an order onWardlaw & Co. for their full wages for the voyage; then they signedarticles with Captain Slocum, and entered the American Mercantile Navy.Two days after this they sighted the high lands at the mouth of the Riode la Plata at 10 P.M., and lay to for a pilot. After three hours' delaythey were boarded by a pilot-boat, and then began to creep into the port.The night was very dark, and a thin white fog lay on the water.Wylie was sitting on the taffrail and conversing with Slocum, when thelookout forward sung out, "Sail ho!"Another voice almost simultaneously yelled out of the fog, "Port yourhelm!"Suddenly out of the mist, and close aboard the _Maria,_ appeared the hulland canvas of a large ship. The brig was crossing her course, and hergreat bowsprit barely missed the brig's mainsail. It stood for a momentover Wylie's head. He looked up, and there was the figure-head of theship looming almost within his reach. It was a colossal green woman; onearm extended grasped a golden harp, the other was pressed to her head inthe attitude of holding back her wild and flowing hair. The face seemedto glare down upon the two men. In another moment the monster, glidingon, just missing the brig, was lost in the fog."That was a narrow squeak," said Slocum.Wylie made no answer, but looked into the darkness after the vessel.He had recognized her figure-head.It was the _Shannon!_CHAPTER XIV.BEFORE the _Maria_ sailed again, with the men who formed a part ofWylie's crew, he made them sign a declaration before the English Consulat Buenos Ayres. This document set forth the manner in which the_Proserpine_ foundered; it was artfully made up of facts enough todeceive a careless listener; but, when Wylie read it over to them heslurred over certain parts, which he took care, also, to express inlanguage above the comprehension of such men. Of course they assentedeagerly to what they did not understand, and signed the statementconscientiously.So Wylie and his three men were shipped on board the _Boadicea,_ boundfor Liverpool, in Old England, while the others sailed with CaptainSlocum for Nantucket, in New England.The _Boadicea_ was a clipper laden with hides and a miscellaneous cargo.For seventeen days she flew before a southerly gale, being on her bestsailing point, and, after one of the shortest passages she had ever made,she lay to, outside the bar, off the Mersey. It wanted but one hour todaylight, the tide was flowing; the pilot sprang aboard."What do you draw?" he asked of the master."Fifteen feet, barely," was the reply."That will do," and the vessel's head was laid for the river.They passed a large bark, with her topsails backed."Ay," remarked the pilot, "she has waited since the half-ebb; there ain'tmore than four hours in the twenty-four that such craft as that can getin.""What is she? An American liner?" asked Wylie, peering through the gloom."No," said the pilot; "she's an Australian ship. She's the _Shannon,_from Sydney."The mate started, looked at the man, then at the vessel. Twice the_Shannon_ had thus met him, as if to satisfy him that his object had beenattained, and each time she seemed to him not an inanimate thing, but asilent accomplice. A chill of fear struck through the man's frame as helooked at her. Yes, there she lay, and in her hold were safely stowed160,000 pounds in gold, marked lead and copper.Wylie had no luggage nor effects to detain him on board; he landed, and,having bestowed his three companions in a sailors' boarding-house, he washastening to the shipping agents of Wardlaw & Son to announce his arrivaland the fate of the _Proserpine._ He had reached their offices in WaterStreet before he recollected that it was barely half past five o'clock,and, though broad daylight on that July morning, merchants' offices arenot open at that hour. The sight of the _Shannon_ had so bewildered himthat he had not noticed that the shops were all shut, the streetsdeserted. Then a thought occurred to him--why not be a bearer of his ownnews? He did not require to turn the idea twice over, but resolved, formany reasons, to adopt it. As he hurried to the railway station, he triedto recollect the hour at which the early train started; but his confusedand excited mind refused to perform the function of memory. The _Shannon_dazed him.At the railway-station he found that a train had started at 4 A.M., andthere was nothing until 7:30. This check sobered him a little, and hewent back to the docks; he walked out to the farther end of that nobleline of berths, and sat down on the verge with his legs dangling over thewater. He waited an hour; it was six o'clock by the great dial at St.George's Dock. His eyes were fixed on the _Shannon,_ which was movingslowly up the river; she came abreast to where he sat. The few sailsrequisite to give her steerage fell. Her anchor-chain rattled, and sheswung round with the tide. The clock struck the half-hour; a boat leftthe side of the vessel and made straight for the steps near where he wasseated. A tall, noble-looking man sat in the stern-sheets beside thecoxswain; he was put ashore, and, after exchanging a few words with theboat's crew, he mounted the steps which led him to Wylie's side, followedby one of the sailors, who carried a portmanteau.He stood for a single moment on the quay, and stamped his foot on thebroad stones; then, heaving a deep sigh of satisfaction, he murmured,"Thank God!"He turned toward Wylie."Can you tell me, my man, at what hour the first train starts forLondon?""There is a slow train at 7:30 and an express at 9.""The express will serve me, and give me time for breakfast at theAdelphi. Thank you; good morning;" and the gentleman passed on, followedby the sailor.Wylie looked after him; he noted that erect military carriage and crisp,gray hair and thick white mustache; he had a vague idea that he had seenthat face before, and the memory troubled him.At 7:30 Wylie started for London; the military man followed him in theexpress at 9, and caught him up at Rugby; together they arrived at thestation at Euston Square; it was a quarter to three. Wylie hailed a cab,but, before he could struggle through the crowd to reach it, a railwayporter threw a portmanteau on its roof, and his military acquaintancetook possession of it."All right," said the porter. "What address, sir?"Wylie did not hear what the gentleman said, but the porter shouted it tothe cabman, and then he did hear it."No. -- Russell Square."It was the house of Arthur Wardlaw!Wylie took off his hat, rubbed his frowzy hair, and gaped after the cab.He entered another cab, and told the driver to go to "No. -- FenchurchStreet."It was the office of Wardlaw & Son.CHAPTER XV.OUR scene now changes from the wild ocean and its perils to a snug roomin Fenchurch Street, the inner office of Wardlaw & Son: a largeapartment, paneled with fine old mellow Spanish oak; and all thefurniture in keeping; the carpet, a thick Axminster of sober colors; thechairs of oak and morocco, very substantial; a large office-table, withoaken legs like very columns, substantial; two Milner safes; a globe ofunusual size with a handsome tent over it, made of roan leather, figured;the walls hung with long oak boxes, about eight inches broad, containingrolled maps of high quality and great dimensions; to consult which, oakenscepters tipped with brass hooks stood ready. With these the great mapscould be drawn down and inspected; and, on being released, flew up intotheir wooden boxes again. Besides these were hung up a few drawings,representing outlines, and inner sections, of vessels; and, on a smallertable, lay models, almanacs, etc. The great office-table was covered withwriting materials and papers, all but a square space inclosed with alittle silver rail, and inside that space lay a purple morocco case aboutten inches square; it was locked, and contained an exquisite portrait ofHelen Rolleston.This apartment was so situated, and the frames of the plate-glass windowsso well made and substantial, that, let a storm blow a thousand shipsashore, it could not be felt, nor heard, in Wardlaw's inner office.But appearances are deceitful; and who can wall out a sea of troubles,and the tempests of the mind?The inmate of that office was battling for his commercial existence,under accumulated difficulties and dangers. Like those who sailed the_Proserpine's_ long-boat, upon that dirty night, which so nearly swampedher, his eye had now to be on every wave, and the sheet forever in hishand.His measures had been ably taken; but, as will happen when clever men aredriven into a corner, he had backed events rather too freely againsttime; had allowed too slight a margin for unforeseen delays. Forinstance, he had averaged the _Shannon's_ previous performances, and hadcalculated on her arrival too nicely. She was a fortnight overdue, andthat delay brought peril.He had also counted upon getting news of the _Proserpine._ But not a wordhad reached Lloyd's as yet.At this very crisis came the panic of '66. Overend and Gurney broke; andWardlaw's experience led him to fear that, sooner or later, there wouldbe a run on every bank in London. Now he had borrowed 80,000 pounds atone bank, and 35,000 pounds at another. And, without his ships, could notpossibly pay a quarter of the money. If the banks in question were runupon, and obliged to call in all their resources, his credit must go; andthis, in his precarious position, was ruin.He had concealed his whole condition from his father, by falsebook-keeping. Indeed, he had only two confidants in the world; poor oldMichael Penfold, and Helen Rolleston's portrait; and even to these two hemade half confidences. He dared not tell either of them all he had done,and all he was going to do.His redeeming feature was as bright as ever. He still loved HelenRolleston with a chaste, constant and ardent affection that did himhonor. He loved money too well. But he loved Helen better. In all histroubles and worries it was his one consolation to unlock her portraitand gaze on it, and purify his soul for a few minutes. Sometimes he wouldapologize to it for an act of doubtful morality. "How can I risk the lossof you?" was his favorite excuse. No. He must have credit. He must havemoney. She must not suffer by his past imprudences. They must be repairedat any cost--for her sake.It was ten o'clock in the morning. Mr. Penfold was sorting the lettersfor his employer, when a buxom young woman rushed into the outer officecrying, "Oh, Mr. Penfold!" and sank into a chair breathless."Dear heart! what is the matter now?" said the old gentleman."I have had a dream, sir. I dreamed I saw Joe Wylie out on the seas, in aboat; and the wind it was a blowing and the sea a roaring to that degreeas Joe looked at me, and says he, 'Pray for me, Nancy Rouse.' So I says,'Oh, dear Joe, what is the matter? and what ever is become of the_Proserpine?'_"'Gone to Hell!' says he. Which he knows I object to foul language.'Gone--there--' says he, 'and I am sailing in her wake. Oh, pray for me,Nancy Rouse!' With that, I tries to pray in my dream, and screamsinstead, and wakes myself. Oh, Mr. Penfold, do tell me, have you got anynews of the _Proserpine_ this morning?""What is that to you?" inquired Arthur Wardlaw, who had entered just intime to hear this last query."What is it to me!" cried Nancy, firing up; "it is more to me, perhaps,than it is to you, for that matter."Penfold explained, timidly, "Sir, Mrs. Rouse is my landlady.""Which I have never been to church with any man yet of the name of Rouse,leastways, not in my waking hours," edged in the lady."Miss Rouse, I should say," said Penfold, apologizing. "I beg pardon, butI thought Mrs. might sound better in a landlady. Please, sir, Mr. Wylie,the mate of the _Proserpine,_ is her--her--sweetheart.""Not he. Leastways, he is only on trial, after a manner.""Of course, sir--only after a manner," added Penfold, sadly perplexed."Miss Rouse is incapable of anything else. But, if you please, m'm, Idon't presume to know the exact relation;" and then with great reserve,"but you know you are anxious about him."Miss Rouse sniffed, and threw her nose in the air--as if to throw a doubteven on that view of the matter."Well, madam," says Wardlaw, "I am sorry to say I can give you noinformation. I share your anxiety, for I have got 160,000 pounds of goldin the ship. You might inquire at Lloyd's. Direct her there, Mr. Penfold,and bring me my letters."With this he entered his inner office, sat down, took out a golden key,opened the portrait of Helen, gazed at it, kissed it, uttered a deepsigh, and prepared to face the troubles of the day.Penfold brought in a leathern case, like an enormous bill-book. It hadthirty vertical compartments; and the names of various cities andseaports, with which Wardlaw & Son did business, were printed in goldletters on some of these compartments; on others the names of persons;and on two compartments the word "Miscellaneous." Michael brought thismachine in, filled with a correspondence enough to break a man's heart tolook at.This was one of the consequences of Wardlaw's position. He durst not lethis correspondence be read, and filtered, in the outer office. He openedthe whole mass; sent some back into the outer office; then touched ahand-bell, and a man emerged from the small apartment adjoining his own.This was Mr. Atkins, his shorthand writer. He dictated to this man sometwenty letters, which were taken down in short-hand; the man retired tocopy them, and write them out in duplicate from his own notes, and thisreduced the number to seven. These Wardlaw sat down to write himself, andlock up the copies.While he was writing them, he received a visitor or two, whom hedispatched as quickly as his letters.He was writing his last letter, when he heard in the outer office a voicehe thought he knew. He got up and listened. It was so. Of all the voicesin the city, this was the one it most dismayed him to hear in his officeat the present crisis.He listened on, and satisfied himself that a fatal blow was coming. Hethen walked quietly to his table, seated himself, and prepared to receivethe stroke with external composure.Penfold announced, "Mr. Burtenshaw.""Show him in," said Wardlaw quietly.Mr. Burtenshaw, one of the managers of Morland's bank, came in, andWardlaw motioned him courteously to a chair, while he finished hisletter, which took only a few moments.While he was sealing it, he half turned to his visitor, and said, "No badnews? Morland's is safe, of course.""Well," said Burtenshaw, "there is a run upon our bank--a severe one. Wecould not hope to escape the effects of the panic."He then, after an uneasy pause, and with apparent reluctance, added, "Iam requested by the other directors to assure you it is their presentextremity alone, that-- In short, we are really compelled to beg you torepay the amount advanced to you by the bank."Wardlaw showed no alarm, but great surprise. This was clever; for he feltgreat alarm, and no surprise."The 81,000 pounds," said he. "Why, that advance was upon the freight ofthe _Proserpine._ Forty-five thousand ounces of gold. She ought to behere by this time. She is in the Channel at this moment, no doubt.""Excuse me; she is overdue, and the underwriters uneasy. I have madeinquiries.""At any rate, she is fully insured, and you hold the policies. Besides,the name of Wardlaw on your books should stand for bullion."Burtenshaw shook his head. "Names are at a discount to-day, sir. We can'tpay you down on the counter. Why, our depositors look cross at Bank ofEngland notes."To an inquiry, half ironical, whether the managers really expected him tofind 81,000 pounds cash, at a few hours' notice, Burtenshaw replied,sorrowfully, that they felt for his difficulty while deploring their own;but that, after all, it was a debt. And, in short, if he could find nomeans of paying it, they must suspend payment for a time, and issue astatement--and--He hesitated to complete his sentence, and Wardlaw did it for him."And ascribe your suspension to my inability to refund this advance?"said he, bitterly."I am afraid that is the construction it will bear."Wardlaw rose, to intimate he had no more to say.Burtenshaw, however, was not disposed to go without some clearunderstanding. "May I say we shall hear from you, sir?""Yes."And so they wished each other good-morning; and Wardlaw sank into hischair.In that quiet dialogue, ruin had been inflicted and received without anyapparent agitation; ay, and worse than ruin--exposure.Morland's suspension, on account of money lost by Wardlaw & Son, would atonce bring old Wardlaw to London, and the affairs of the firm would beinvestigated, and the son's false system of bookkeeping be discovered.He sat stupefied awhile, then put on his hat and rushed to his solicitor;on the way, he fell in with a great talker, who told him there was arumor the _Shannon_ was lost in the Pacific.At this he nearly fainted in the street; and his friend took him back tohis office in a deplorable condition. All this time he had been feigninganxiety about the _Proserpine,_ and concealing his real anxiety about the_Shannon._ To do him justice, he lost sight of everything in the worldnow but Helen. He sent old Penfold in hot haste to Lloyd's, to inquirefor news of the ship; and then he sat down sick at heart; and all hecould do now was to open her portrait, and gaze at it through eyesblinded with tears. Even a vague rumor, which he hoped might be false,had driven all his commercial maneuvers out of him, and made all othercalamities seem small.And so they all are small, compared with the death of the creature welove.While he sat thus, in a stupor of fear and grief, he heard a well-knownvoice in the outer office; and, next after Burtenshaw's, it was the onethat caused him the most apprehension. It was his father's.Wardlaw senior rarely visited the office now; and this was not his hour.So Arthur knew something extraordinary had brought him up to town. And hecould not doubt that it was the panic, and that he had been to Morland's,or would go there in course of the day; but, indeed, it was more probablethat he had already heard something, and was come to investigate.Wardlaw senior entered the room."Good-morning, Arthur," said he. "I've got good news for you."Arthur was quite startled by an announcement that accorded so little withhis expectations."Good news--for _me?"_ said he, in a faint, incredulous tone."Ay, glorious news! Haven't you been anxious about the _Shannon?_ I have;more anxious than I would own."Arthur started up. "The _Shannon!_ God bless you, father.""She lies at anchor in the Mersey," roared the old man, with all afather's pride at bringing such good news. "Why, the Rollestons will bein London at 2:15. See, here is his telegram."At this moment in ran Penfold, to tell them that the _Shannon_ was up atLloyd's, had anchored off Liverpool last night.There was hearty shaking of hands, and Arthur Wardlaw was the happiestman in London--for a little while."Got the telegram at Elmtrees, this morning, and came up by the firstexpress," said Wardlaw senior.The telegram was from Sir Edward Rolleston. _"Reached Liverpool lastnight; will be at Euston, two-fifteen."_"Not a word from _her!"_"Oh, there was no time to write; and ladies do not use the telegram." Headded slyly, "Perhaps she thought coming in person would do as well, orbetter, eh!""But why does he telegraph you instead of me?""I am sure I don't know. What does it matter? Yes, I do know. It wassettled months ago that he and Helen should come to me at Elmtrees, so Iwas the proper person to telegraph. I'll go and meet them at the station;there is plenty of time. But, I say, Arthur, have you seen the papers?Bartley Brothers obliged to wind up. Maple & Cox, of Liverpool, gone;Atlantic trading. Terry & Brown suspended, International credit gone. Oldfriends, some of these. Hopley & Timms, railway contractors, failed, sir;liabilities, seven hundred thousand pounds and more.""Yes, sir," said Arthur, pompously. "1866 will long be remembered for itsrevelations of commercial morality."The old gentleman, on this, asked his son, with excusable vanity, whetherhe had done ill in steering clear of speculation; he then congratulatedhim on having listened to good advice and stuck to legitimate business."I must say, Arthur," added be, "your books are models for any tradingfirm."Arthur winced in secret under this praise, for it occurred to him that ina few days his father would discover those books were all a sham and theaccounts a fabrication.However, the unpleasant topic was soon interrupted, and effectually, too;for Michael looked in, with an air of satisfaction on his benevolentcountenance, and said, "Gentlemen, such an arrival! Here is Miss Rouse'ssweetheart, that she dreamed was drowned.""What is the man to me?" said Arthur peevishly. He did not recognizeWylie under that title."La, Mr. Arthur! why, he is the mate of the _Proserpine,_" said Penfold."What! Wylie! Joseph Wylie?" cried Arthur, in a sudden excitement thatcontrasted strangely with his previous indifference."What is that?" cried Wardlaw senior; "the _Proserpine;_ show him in atonce."Now this caused Arthur Wardlaw considerable anxiety; for obvious reasonshe did not want his father and this sailor to exchange a word together.However, that was inevitable now. The door opened; and the bronzed faceand sturdy figure of Wylie, clad in a rough pea-jacket, came slouchingin.Arthur went hastily to meet him, and gave him an expressive look ofwarning, even while he welcomed him in cordial accents."Glad to see you safe home," said Wardlaw senior."Thank ye, guv'nor," said Wylie. "Had a squeak for it, this time.""Where is your ship?"Wylie shook his head sorrowfully. "Bottom of the Pacific.""Good heavens! What! is she lost?""That she is, sir. Foundered at sea, twelve hundred miles from the Horn,and more.""And the freight? the gold?" put in Arthur, with well-feigned anxiety."Not an ounce saved," said Wylie, disconsolately. "A hundred and sixtythousand pounds gone to the bottom.""Good heavens!""Ye see, sir," said Wylie, "the ship encountered one gale after another,and labored a good deal, first and last; and we all say her seams musthave opened; for we never could find the leak that sunk her," and he casta meaning glance at Arthur Wardlaw."No matter how it happened," said the old merchant. "Are we insured tothe full; that is the first question?""To the last shilling.""Well done, Arthur.""But still it is most unlucky. Some weeks must elapse before theinsurances can be realized, and a portion of the gold was paid for inbills at short date.""The rest in cash?""Cash and merchandise.""Then there is the proper margin. Draw on my private account, at the Bankof England."These few simple words showed the struggling young merchant a way out ofall his difficulties.His heart leaped so, he dared not reply, lest he should excite the oldgentleman's suspicions.But ere he could well draw his breath for joy, came a freezer."Mr. Burtenshaw, sir.""Bid him wait," said Arthur, aloud, and cast a look of great anxiety onPenfold, which the poor old man, with all his simplicity, comprehendedwell enough."Burtenshaw, from Morland's. What does he want of us?" said Wardlawsenior, knitting his brows.Arthur turned cold all over. "Perhaps to ask me not to draw out mybalance. It is less than usual; but they are run upon; and, as you aregood enough to let me draw on you-- By the by, perhaps you will sign acheck before you go to the station.""How much do you want?""I really don't know, till I have consulted Penfold. The gold was a largeand advantageous purchase, sir.""No doubt; no doubt. I'll give you my signature, and you can fill in theamount."He drew a check in favor of Arthur Wardlaw, signed it, and left him tofill in the figures.He then looked at his watch, and remarked they would barely have time toget to the station."Good heavens!" cried Arthur; "and I can't go. I must learn theparticulars of the loss of the _Proserpine,_ and prepare the statement atonce for the underwriters.""Well, never mind. _I_ can go.""But what will she think of me? I ought to be the first to welcome her.""I'll make your excuses.""No, no; say nothing. After all, it was you who received the telegram, soyou naturally meet her; but you will bring her here, father. You won'twhisk my darling down to Elmtrees till you have blessed me with the sightof her.""I will not be so cruel, fond lover," said old Wardlaw, laughing, andtook up his hat and gloves to go.Arthur went to the door with him in great anxiety, lest he shouldquestion Burtenshaw. But, peering into the outer office, he observedBurtenshaw was not there. Michael had caught his employer's anxious lookand conveyed the banker into the small room where the short-hand writerwas at work. But Burtenshaw was one of a struggling firm; to him everyminute was an hour. He had sat, fuming with impatience, so long as heheard talking in the inner office; and, the moment it ceased, he took theliberty of coming in; so that he opened the side door just as Wardlawsenior was passing through the center door.Instantly Wardlaw junior whipped before him, to hide his figure from hisretreating father.Wylie--who all this time had been sitting silent, looking from one to theother, and quietly puzzling out the game as well as he could--observedthis movement and grinned.As for Arthur Wardlaw, he saw his father safe out, then gave a sigh ofrelief, and walked to his office table and sat down and began to fill inthe check.Burtenshaw drew near and said, "I am instructed to say that fiftythousand pounds on account will be accepted."Perhaps if this proposal had been made a few seconds sooner, theingenious Arthur would have availed himself of it; but as it was, hepreferred to take the high and mighty tone. "I decline any concession,"said he. "Mr. Penfold, take this check to the Bank of England. 81,647pounds 10s., that is the amount, capital and interest, up to noon thisday. Hand the sum to Mr. Burtenshaw, taking his receipt, or, if heprefers it, pay it across his counter, to my credit. That will perhapsarrest the run."Burtenshaw stammered out his thanks.Wardlaw cut him short. "Good-morning, sir," said he. "I have business of_importance._ Good-day," and bowed him out."This is a high-flier," thought Burtenshaw.Wardlaw then opened the side door and called his short-hand writer."Mr. Atkins, please step into the outer office, and don't let a soul comein to me. Mind, I am out for the day. Except to Miss Rolleston and herfather."He then closed all the doors, and sunk exhausted into a chair, muttering,"Thank Heaven! I have got rid of them all for an hour or two. _Now,_Wylie."Wylie seemed in no hurry to enter upon the required subject.Said he, evasively, "Why, guv'nor, it seems to me you are among thebreakers here yourself.""Nothing of the sort, if you have managed your work cleverly. Come, tellme all, before we are interrupted again.""Tell ye all about it! Why, there's part on't I am afraid to think on;let alone talk about it.""Spare me your scruples, and give me your facts," said Wardlaw coldly."First of all, did you succeed in shifting the bullion as agreed?"The sailor appeared relieved by this question."Oh, that is all right," said he. "I got the bullion safe aboard the_Shannon,_ marked for lead.""And the lead on board the _Proserpine?"_"Ay, shipped as bullion.""Without suspicion?""Not quite.""Great Heaven! Who?""One clerk at the shipping agent's scented something queer, I think.James Seaton. That was the name he went by.""Could he prove anything?""Nothing. He knew nothing for certain; and what he guessed won't never beknown in England now." And Wylie fidgeted in his chair.Notwithstanding this assurance Wardlaw looked grave, and took a note ofthat clerk's name. Then he begged Wylie to go on. "Give me all thedetails," said he. "Leave _me_ to judge their relative value. Youscuttled the ship?""Don't say that! don't say that!" cried Wylie, in a low but eager voice."Stone walls have ears." Then rather more loudly than was necessary,"Ship sprung a leak that neither the captain, nor I, nor anybody couldfind, to stop. Me and my men, we all think her seams opened, with stressof weather." Then, lowering his voice again, "Try and see it as we do;and don't you ever use such a word as that what come out of your lipsjust now. We pumped her hard; but 'twarn't no use. She filled, and we hadto take to the boats.""Stop a moment. Was there any suspicion excited?""Not among the crew. And suppose there was, I could talk 'em all over, orbuy 'em all over, what few of 'em is left. I've got 'em all with me inone house, and they are all square, don't you fear.""Well, but you said 'among the _crew!'_ Whom else can we have to fear?""Why, nobody. To be sure, one of the passengers was down on me; but whatdoes that matter now?""It matters greatly--it matters terribly. Who was this passenger?""He called himself the Reverend John Hazel. He suspected something orother; and what with listening here, and watching there, he judged theship was never to see England, and I always fancied he told the lady.""What, was there a lady there?""Ay, worse luck, sir; and a pretty girl she was. Coming home to Englandto die of consumption; so our surgeon told me.""Well, never mind her. The clergyman! This fills me with anxiety. A clerksuspecting us at Sydney, and a passenger suspecting us in the vessel.There are two witnesses against us already.""No; only one.""How do you make that out?""Why, White's clerk and the parson, they was one man."Wardlaw stared in utter amazement."Don't ye believe me?" said Wylie. "I tell ye that there clerk boarded usunder an alias. He had shaved off his beard; but, bless your heart, Iknew him directly.""He came to verify his suspicions," suggested Wardlaw, in a faint voice."Not he. He came for love of the sick girl, and nothing else; and you'llnever see either him or her, if that is any comfort to you.""Be good enough to conceal nothing. Facts must be faced.""That is too true, sir. Well, we abandoned her, and took to the boats. Icommanded one.""And Hudson the other?""Hudson! No.""Why, how was that? and what has become of him?""What has become of Hudson?" said Wylie, with a start. "There's aquestion! And not a drop to wet my lips and warm my heart. Is this a taleto tell dry? Can't ye spare a drop of brandy to a poor devil that hasearned ye 150,000 pounds, and risked his life, and wrecked his soul to doit?"Wardlaw cast a glance of contempt on him, but got up and speedily put abottle of old brandy, a tumbler and a caraffe of water on the tablebefore him.Wylie drank a wineglassful neat, and gave a sort of sigh of satisfaction.And then ensued a dialogue, in which, curiously enough, the brave man wasagitated, and the timid man was cool and collected. But one reason was,the latter had not imagination enough to realize things unseen, though hehad caused them.Wylie told him how Hudson got to the bottle, and would not leave theship. "I think I see him now, with his cutlass in one hand, and his rumbottle in the other, and the waves running over his poor, silly face, asshe went down. Poor Hiram! he and I had made many a trip together, beforewe took to this."And Wylie shuddered, and took another gulp at the brandy.While he was drinking to drown the picture, Wardlaw was calmly reflectingon the bare fact. "Hum," said he, "we must use that circumstance. I'llget it into the journals. Heroic captain. Went down with the ship. Whocan suspect Hudson in the teeth of such a fact? Now pray go on, my goodWylie. The boats!""Well, sir, I had the surgeon, and ten men, and the lady's maid, on boardthe long-boat; and there was the parson, the sick lady, and five sailorsaboard the cutter. We sailed together, till night, steering for JuanFernandez; then a fog came on and we lost sight of the cutter, and Ialtered my mind and judged it best to beat to win'ard, and get into thetrack of ships. Which we did, and were nearly swamped in a sou' wester;but, by good luck, a Yankee whaler picked us up, and took us to BuenosAyres, where we shipped for England, what was left of us, only four,besides myself; but I got the signatures of the others to my tale of thewreck. It is all as square as a die, I tell you.""Well done. Well done. But, stop! the other boat, with that sham parsonon board, who knows all. She will be picked up, too, perhaps.""There is no chance for that. She was out of the tracks of trade; and,I'll tell ye the truth, sir." He poured out half a tumbler of brandy, anddrank a part of it; and, now, for the first time, his hand trembled as helifted the glass. "Some fool had put the main of her provisions aboardthe longboat; that is what sticks to me, and won't let me sleep. We tooka chance, but we didn't give one. I think I told you there was a womanaboard the cutter, that sick girl, sir. Oh, but it was hard lines forher, poor thing! I see her pale and calm; oh, Lord, so pale and calm;every night of my life; she kneeled aboard the cutter with her whitehands a-clasped together, praying.""Certainly, it is all very shocking," said Wardlaw; "but then, you know,if they had escaped, they would have exposed us. Believe me, it is allfor the best."Wylie looked at him with wonder. "Ay," said he, after staring at him along time; "you can sit here at your ease, and doom a ship and risk herpeople's lives. But if you had to do it, and see it, and then lie awakethinking of it, you'd wish all the gold on earth had been in hell beforeyou put your hand to such a piece of work."Wardlaw smiled a ghastly smile. "In short," said he, "you don't mean totake the three thousand pounds I pay you for this little job.""Oh, yes, I do; but for all the gold in Victoria I wouldn't do such a jobagain. And you mark my words, sir, we shall get the money, and nobodywill ever be the wiser." Wardlaw rubbed his hands complacently. Hisegotism, coupled with his want of imagination, nearly blinded him toeverything but the pecuniary feature of the business. "But," continuedWylie, "we shall never thrive on it. We have sunk a good ship, and wehave as good as murdered a poor dying girl.""Hold your tongue, ye fool!" cried Wardlaw, losing his sang-froid in amoment, for he heard somebody at the door.It opened, and there stood a military figure in a traveling-cap--GeneralRolleston.CHAPTER XVI.As some eggs have actually two yolks, so Arthur Wardlaw had two hearts;and, at sight of Helen's father, the baser one ceased to beat for awhile.He ran to General Rolleston, shook him warmly by the hand, and welcomedhim to England with sparkling eyes.It is pleasant to be so welcomed, and the stately soldier returned hisgrasp in kind."Is Helen with you, sir?" said Wardlaw, making a movement to go to thedoor; for he thought she must be outside in the cab."No, she is not," said General Rolleston."There, now," said Arthur, "that cruel father of mine has broken hispromise and carried her off to Elmtrees!"At this moment Wardlaw senior returned, to tell Arthur he had been justtoo late to meet the Rollestons. "Oh, here he is!" said he; and therewere fresh greetings."Well, but," said Arthur, "where is Helen!""I think it is I who ought to ask that question," said Rolleston,gravely. "I telegraphed you at Elmtrees, thinking of course she wouldcome with you to meet me at the station. It does not much matter, a fewhours; but her not coming makes me uneasy, for her health was decliningwhen she left me. How is my child, Mr. Wardlaw? Pray tell me the truth."Both the Wardlaws looked at one another, and at General Rolleston, andthe elder Wardlaw said there was certainly some misunderstanding here."We fully believed that your daughter was coming home with you in the_Shannon."_"Come home with me? Why, of course not. She sailed three weeks before me.Good Heavens! Has she not arrived?""No," replied old Wardlaw, "we have neither seen nor heard of her.""Why, what ship did she sail in?" said Arthur."In the _Proserpine."_CHAPTER XVII.ARTHUR WARDLAW fixed on the speaker a gaze full of horror; his jaw fell;a livid pallor spread over his features; he echoed in a hoarse whisper,"The _Proserpine!"_ and turned his scared eyes upon Wylie, who washimself leaning against the wall, his stalwart frame beginning totremble."The sick girl," murmured Wylie, and a cold sweat gathered on his brow.General Rolleston looked from one to another with strange misgivings,which soon deepened into a sense of some terrible calamity; for now astrong convulsion swelled Arthur Wardlaw's heart; his face workedfearfully; and, with a sharp and sudden cry, he fell forward on thetable, and his father's arm alone prevented him from sinking like a deadman on the floor. Yet, though crushed and helpless, he was notinsensible; that blessing was denied him.General Rolleston implored an explanation.Wylie, with downcast and averted face, began to stammer a fewdisconnected and unintelligible words; but old Wardlaw silenced him andsaid, with much feeling, "Let none but a father tell him. My poor, poorfriend--the _Proserpine!_ How can I say it?""Lost at sea," groaned Wylie.At these fatal words the old warrior's countenance grew rigid; his large,bony hands gripped the back of the chair on which he leaned, and werewhite with their own convulsive force; and he bowed his head under theblow, without one word.His was an agony too great and mute to be spoken to; and there wassilence in the room, broken only by the hysterical moans of the miserableplotter, who had drawn down this calamity on his own head. He was in nostate to be left alone; and even the bereaved father found pity in hisdesolate heart for one who loved his lost child so well; and the two oldmen took him home between them, in a helpless and pitiable condition.CHAPTER XVIII.BUT this utter prostration of his confederate began to alarm Wylie, androuse him to exertion. Certainly, he was very sorry for what he had done,and would have undone it and forfeited his three thousand pounds in amoment, if he could. But, as he could not undo the crime, he was all themore determined to reap the reward. Why, that three thousand pounds, foraught he knew, was the price of his soul; and he was not the man to lethis soul go gratis.He finished the rest of the brandy, and went after his men, to keep themtrue to him by promises; but the next day he came to the office inFenchurch Street, and asked anxiously for Wardlaw. Wardlaw had notarrived. He waited, but the merchant never came; and Michael told himwith considerable anxiety that this was the first time his young masterhad missed coming this five years.In course of the day, several underwriters came in, with long faces, toverify the report, which had now reached Lloyd's, that the _Proserpine_had foundered at sea."It is too true," said Michael; "and poor Mr. Wylie here has barelyescaped with his life. He was mate of the ship, gentlemen."Upon this, each visitor questioned Wylie, and Wylie returned the samesmooth answer to all inquiries. One heavy gale after another had so triedthe ship that her seams had opened, and let in more water than all theexertions of the crew and passengers could discharge; at last, they hadtaken to the boats; the long-boat had been picked up; the cutter hadnever been heard of since.They nearly all asked after the ship's log."I have got it safe at home," said he.It was in his pocket all the time.Some asked him where the other survivors were. He told them five hadshipped on board the _Maria,_ and three were with him at Poplar, onedisabled by the hardships they had all endured.One or two complained angrily of Mr. Wardlaw's absence at such a time."Well, good gentlemen," said Wylie, "I'll tell ye. Mr. Wardlaw'ssweetheart was aboard the ship. He is a'most broken-hearted. He valliedher more than all the gold, that you may take your oath on."This stroke, coming from a rough fellow in a pea-jacket, who looked assimple as he was cunning, silenced remonstrance, and went far to disarmsuspicion; and so pleased Michael Penfold that he said, "Mr. Wylie, youare interested in this business, would you mind going to Mr. Wardlaw'shouse and asking what we are to do next? I'll give you his address and aline begging him to make an effort and see you. Business is the heart'sbest ointment. Eh, dear Mr. Wylie, I have known grief, too; and I think Ishould have gone mad when they sent my poor son away, but for business,especially the summing up of long columns, etc."Wylie called at the house in Russell Square, and asked to see Mr.Wardlaw.The servant shook his head. "You can't see him; he is very ill.""Very ill?" said Wylie. "I'm sorry for that. Well, but I shan't make himany worse; and Mr. Penfold says I must see him. It is very particular, Itell you. He won't thank you for refusing me, when he comes to hear ofit."He said this very seriously; and the servant, after a short hesitation,begged him to sit down in the passage a moment. He then went into thedining-room, and shortly reappeared, holding the door open. Out came, notWardlaw junior, but Wardlaw senior."My son is in no condition to receive you," said he, gravely; "but I amat your service. What is your business?"Wylie was taken off his guard, and stammered out something about the_Shannon._"The _Shannon!_ What have you to do with her? You belong to the_Proserpine."_"Ay, sir; but I had his orders to ship forty chests of lead and smeltedcopper on board the _Shannon."_"Well?""Ye see, sir," said Wylie, "Mr. Wardlaw was particular about them, and Ifeel responsible like, having shipped them aboard another vessel.""Have you not the captain's receipt?""That I have, sir, at home. But you could hardly read it for salt water.""Well," said Wardlaw senior, "I will direct our agent at Liverpool tolook after them, and send them up at once to my cellars in FenchurchStreet. Forty chests of lead and copper, I think you said." And he took anote of this directly. Wylie was not a little discomfited at thisunexpected turn things had taken; but he held his tongue now, for fear ofmaking bad worse. Wardlaw senior went on to say that he should have toconduct the business of the firm for a time, in spite of his old age andfailing health.This announcement made Wylie perspire with anxiety, and his threethousand pounds seemed to melt away from him."But never mind," said old Wardlaw; "I am very glad you came. In fact,you are the very man I wanted to see. My poor afflicted friend has askedafter you several times. Be good enough to follow me."He led the way into the dining-room, and there sat the sad father in allthe quiet dignity of calm, unfathomable sorrow.Another gentleman stood upon the rug with his back to the fire, waitingfor Mr. Wardlaw; this was the family physician, who had just come downfrom Arthur's bedroom, and had entered by another door through thedrawing-room."Well, doctor," said Wardlaw, anxiously, "what is your report?""Not so good as I could wish; but nothing to excite immediate alarm.Overtaxed brain, sir, weakened and unable to support this calamity.However, we have reduced the fever; the symptoms of delirium have beenchecked, and I think we shall escape brain fever if he is kept quiet. Icould not have said as much this morning."The doctor then took his leave, with a promise to call next morning; and,as soon as he was gone, Wardlaw turned to General Rolleston, and said,"Here _is_ Wylie, sir. Come forward, my man, and speak to the general. Hewants to know if you can point out to him on the chart the very spotwhere the _Proserpine_ was lost?""Well, sir," said Wylie, "I think I could."The great chart of the Pacific was then spread out upon the table, andrarely has a chart been examined as this was, with the bleeding heart aswell as the straining eye.The rough sailor became an oracle; the others hung upon his words, andfollowed his brown finger on the chart with fearful interest."Ye see, sir," said he, addressing the old merchant--for there wassomething on his mind that made him avoid speaking directly to GeneralRolleston--"when we came out of Sydney, the wind being south and bywest, Hudson took the northerly course instead of running through Cook'sStraits. The weather freshened from the same quarter, so that, with onething and another, by when we were a month out, she was five hundredmiles or so nor'ard of her true course. But that wasn't all; when theleak gained on us, Hudson ran the ship three hundred miles by myreckoning to the nor'east; and, I remember, the day before she foundered,he told me she was in latitude forty, and Easter Island bearing duenorth.""Here is the spot, then," said General Rolleston, and placed his fingeron the spot."Ay, sir," said Wylie, addressing the merchant; "but she ran abouteighty-five miles after that, on a northerly course--no--wind on herstarboard quarter--and, being deep in the water, she'd make lee way--sayeighty-two miles, nor'east by east." The general took eighty-two milesoff the scale, with a pair of dividers, and set out that distance on thechart. He held the instrument fixed on the point thus obtained.Wylie eyed the point, and, after a moment's consideration, nodded hishead."There, or thereabouts," he said, in a low voice, and looking at themerchant.A pause ensued, and the two old men examined the speck pricked on themap, as if it were the waters covering the _Proserpine._"Now, sir," said Rolleston, "trace the course of the boats;" and hehanded Wylie a pencil.The sailor slowly averted his head, but stretched out his hand and tookit, and traced two lines, the one short and straight, running nearlynortheast. "That's the way the cutter headed when we lost her in thenight."The other line ran parallel to the first for half an inch, then, turning,bent backward and ran due south."This was our course," said Wylie.General Rolleston looked up, and said, "Why did you desert the cutter?"The mate looked at old Wardlaw, and, after some hesitation, replied:"After we lost sight of her the men with me declared that we could notreach either Juan Fernandez or Valparaiso with our stock of provisions,and insisted on standing for the sea-track of Australian liners betweenthe Horn and S