tenThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: Lady SusanAuthor: Jane AustenPosting Date: July 27, 2008 [EBook #946]Release Date: June 1997[Last updated: June 10, 2012]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LADY SUSAN ***Produced by An Anonymous VolunteerLADY SUSANby Jane AustenILADY SUSAN VERNON TO MR. VERNONLangford, Dec.MY DEAR BROTHER,--I can no longer refuse myself the pleasure ofprofiting by your kind invitation when we last parted of spending someweeks with you at Churchhill, and, therefore, if quite convenient to youand Mrs. Vernon to receive me at present, I shall hope within a fewdays to be introduced to a sister whom I have so long desired to beacquainted with. My kind friends here are most affectionatelyurgent with me to prolong my stay, but their hospitable and cheerfuldispositions lead them too much into society for my present situationand state of mind; and I impatiently look forward to the hour when Ishall be admitted into your delightful retirement.I long to be made known to your dear little children, in whose hearts Ishall be very eager to secure an interest I shall soon have need for allmy fortitude, as I am on the point of separation from my own daughter.The long illness of her dear father prevented my paying her thatattention which duty and affection equally dictated, and I have toomuch reason to fear that the governess to whose care I consigned her wasunequal to the charge. I have therefore resolved on placing her at oneof the best private schools in town, where I shall have an opportunityof leaving her myself in my way to you. I am determined, you see, not tobe denied admittance at Churchhill. It would indeed give me most painfulsensations to know that it were not in your power to receive me.Your most obliged and affectionate sister,S. VERNON.IILADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS. JOHNSONLangford.You were mistaken, my dear Alicia, in supposing me fixed at this placefor the rest of the winter: it grieves me to say how greatly you weremistaken, for I have seldom spent three months more agreeably thanthose which have just flown away. At present, nothing goes smoothly; thefemales of the family are united against me. You foretold how it wouldbe when I first came to Langford, and Mainwaring is so uncommonlypleasing that I was not without apprehensions for myself. I remembersaying to myself, as I drove to the house, "I like this man, pray Heavenno harm come of it!" But I was determined to be discreet, to bear inmind my being only four months a widow, and to be as quiet as possible:and I have been so, my dear creature; I have admitted no one'sattentions but Mainwaring's. I have avoided all general flirtationwhatever; I have distinguished no creature besides, of all the numbersresorting hither, except Sir James Martin, on whom I bestowed a littlenotice, in order to detach him from Miss Mainwaring; but, if the worldcould know my motive THERE they would honour me. I have been called anunkind mother, but it was the sacred impulse of maternal affection, itwas the advantage of my daughter that led me on; and if that daughterwere not the greatest simpleton on earth, I might have been rewarded formy exertions as I ought.Sir James did make proposals to me for Frederica; but Frederica, whowas born to be the torment of my life, chose to set herself so violentlyagainst the match that I thought it better to lay aside the scheme forthe present. I have more than once repented that I did not marry himmyself; and were he but one degree less contemptibly weak I certainlyshould: but I must own myself rather romantic in that respect, andthat riches only will not satisfy me. The event of all this is veryprovoking: Sir James is gone, Maria highly incensed, and Mrs. Mainwaringinsupportably jealous; so jealous, in short, and so enraged againstme, that, in the fury of her temper, I should not be surprized at herappealing to her guardian, if she had the liberty of addressing him:but there your husband stands my friend; and the kindest, most amiableaction of his life was his throwing her off for ever on her marriage.Keep up his resentment, therefore, I charge you. We are now in a sadstate; no house was ever more altered; the whole party are at war, andMainwaring scarcely dares speak to me. It is time for me to be gone; Ihave therefore determined on leaving them, and shall spend, I hope, acomfortable day with you in town within this week. If I am as littlein favour with Mr. Johnson as ever, you must come to me at 10 Wigmorestreet; but I hope this may not be the case, for as Mr. Johnson, withall his faults, is a man to whom that great word "respectable" is alwaysgiven, and I am known to be so intimate with his wife, his slighting mehas an awkward look.I take London in my way to that insupportable spot, a country village;for I am really going to Churchhill. Forgive me, my dear friend, it ismy last resource. Were there another place in England open to me I wouldprefer it. Charles Vernon is my aversion; and I am afraid of his wife.At Churchhill, however, I must remain till I have something better inview. My young lady accompanies me to town, where I shall deposit herunder the care of Miss Summers, in Wigmore street, till she becomes alittle more reasonable. She will made good connections there, as thegirls are all of the best families. The price is immense, and muchbeyond what I can ever attempt to pay.Adieu, I will send you a line as soon as I arrive in town.Yours ever,S. VERNON.IIIMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhill.My dear Mother,--I am very sorry to tell you that it will not be in ourpower to keep our promise of spending our Christmas with you; and we areprevented that happiness by a circumstance which is not likely tomake us any amends. Lady Susan, in a letter to her brother-in-law, hasdeclared her intention of visiting us almost immediately; and as sucha visit is in all probability merely an affair of convenience, it isimpossible to conjecture its length. I was by no means prepared for suchan event, nor can I now account for her ladyship's conduct; Langfordappeared so exactly the place for her in every respect, as well fromthe elegant and expensive style of living there, as from her particularattachment to Mr. Mainwaring, that I was very far from expecting sospeedy a distinction, though I always imagined from her increasingfriendship for us since her husband's death that we should, at somefuture period, be obliged to receive her. Mr. Vernon, I think, was agreat deal too kind to her when he was in Staffordshire; her behaviourto him, independent of her general character, has been so inexcusablyartful and ungenerous since our marriage was first in agitation that noone less amiable and mild than himself could have overlooked it all;and though, as his brother's widow, and in narrow circumstances, it wasproper to render her pecuniary assistance, I cannot help thinkinghis pressing invitation to her to visit us at Churchhill perfectlyunnecessary. Disposed, however, as he always is to think the best ofeveryone, her display of grief, and professions of regret, and generalresolutions of prudence, were sufficient to soften his heart and makehim really confide in her sincerity; but, as for myself, I am stillunconvinced, and plausibly as her ladyship has now written, I cannotmake up my mind till I better understand her real meaning in coming tous. You may guess, therefore, my dear madam, with what feelings I lookforward to her arrival. She will have occasion for all those attractivepowers for which she is celebrated to gain any share of my regard; andI shall certainly endeavour to guard myself against their influence,if not accompanied by something more substantial. She expresses amost eager desire of being acquainted with me, and makes very graciousmention of my children but I am not quite weak enough to suppose a womanwho has behaved with inattention, if not with unkindness, to her ownchild, should be attached to any of mine. Miss Vernon is to be placed ata school in London before her mother comes to us which I am glad of, forher sake and my own. It must be to her advantage to be separated fromher mother, and a girl of sixteen who has received so wretched aneducation, could not be a very desirable companion here. Reginald haslong wished, I know, to see the captivating Lady Susan, and we shalldepend on his joining our party soon. I am glad to hear that my fathercontinues so well; and am, with best love, &c.,CATHERINE VERNON.IVMR. DE COURCY TO MRS. VERNONParklands.My dear Sister,--I congratulate you and Mr. Vernon on being about toreceive into your family the most accomplished coquette in England. As avery distinguished flirt I have always been taught to consider her, butit has lately fallen in my way to hear some particulars of her conductat Langford: which prove that she does not confine herself to that sortof honest flirtation which satisfies most people, but aspires to themore delicious gratification of making a whole family miserable. By herbehaviour to Mr. Mainwaring she gave jealousy and wretchedness to hiswife, and by her attentions to a young man previously attached to Mr.Mainwaring's sister deprived an amiable girl of her lover.I learnt all this from Mr. Smith, now in this neighbourhood (I havedined with him, at Hurst and Wilford), who is just come from Langfordwhere he was a fortnight with her ladyship, and who is therefore wellqualified to make the communication.What a woman she must be! I long to see her, and shall certainly acceptyour kind invitation, that I may form some idea of those bewitchingpowers which can do so much--engaging at the same time, and in the samehouse, the affections of two men, who were neither of them at liberty tobestow them--and all this without the charm of youth! I am glad to findMiss Vernon does not accompany her mother to Churchhill, as she has noteven manners to recommend her; and, according to Mr. Smith's account, isequally dull and proud. Where pride and stupidity unite there can beno dissimulation worthy notice, and Miss Vernon shall be consigned tounrelenting contempt; but by all that I can gather Lady Susan possessesa degree of captivating deceit which it must be pleasing to witness anddetect. I shall be with you very soon, and am ever,Your affectionate brother,R. DE COURCY.VLADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS. JOHNSONChurchhill.I received your note, my dear Alicia, just before I left town, andrejoice to be assured that Mr. Johnson suspected nothing of yourengagement the evening before. It is undoubtedly better to deceive himentirely, and since he will be stubborn he must be tricked. I arrivedhere in safety, and have no reason to complain of my reception from Mr.Vernon; but I confess myself not equally satisfied with the behaviour ofhis lady. She is perfectly well-bred, indeed, and has the air of a womanof fashion, but her manners are not such as can persuade me of her beingprepossessed in my favour. I wanted her to be delighted at seeing me.I was as amiable as possible on the occasion, but all in vain. She doesnot like me. To be sure when we consider that I DID take some pains toprevent my brother-in-law's marrying her, this want of cordiality is notvery surprizing, and yet it shows an illiberal and vindictive spiritto resent a project which influenced me six years ago, and which neversucceeded at last.I am sometimes disposed to repent that I did not let Charles buyVernon Castle, when we were obliged to sell it; but it was a tryingcircumstance, especially as the sale took place exactly at the timeof his marriage; and everybody ought to respect the delicacy of thosefeelings which could not endure that my husband's dignity should belessened by his younger brother's having possession of the familyestate. Could matters have been so arranged as to prevent the necessityof our leaving the castle, could we have lived with Charles and kepthim single, I should have been very far from persuading my husband todispose of it elsewhere; but Charles was on the point of marryingMiss De Courcy, and the event has justified me. Here are children inabundance, and what benefit could have accrued to me from his purchasingVernon? My having prevented it may perhaps have given his wife anunfavourable impression, but where there is a disposition to dislike,a motive will never be wanting; and as to money matters it has notwithheld him from being very useful to me. I really have a regardfor him, he is so easily imposed upon! The house is a good one, thefurniture fashionable, and everything announces plenty and elegance.Charles is very rich I am sure; when a man has once got his name in abanking-house he rolls in money; but they do not know what to do withit, keep very little company, and never go to London but on business. Weshall be as stupid as possible. I mean to win my sister-in-law's heartthrough the children; I know all their names already, and am going toattach myself with the greatest sensibility to one in particular, ayoung Frederic, whom I take on my lap and sigh over for his dear uncle'ssake.Poor Mainwaring! I need not tell you how much I miss him, howperpetually he is in my thoughts. I found a dismal letter from him onmy arrival here, full of complaints of his wife and sister, andlamentations on the cruelty of his fate. I passed off the letter as hiswife's, to the Vernons, and when I write to him it must be under coverto you.Ever yours, S. VERNON.VIMRS. VERNON TO MR. DE COURCYChurchhill.Well, my dear Reginald, I have seen this dangerous creature, and mustgive you some description of her, though I hope you will soon be able toform your own judgment. She is really excessively pretty; however you maychoose to question the allurements of a lady no longer young, I must,for my own part, declare that I have seldom seen so lovely a womanas Lady Susan. She is delicately fair, with fine grey eyes and darkeyelashes; and from her appearance one would not suppose her more thanfive and twenty, though she must in fact be ten years older, I wascertainly not disposed to admire her, though always hearing she wasbeautiful; but I cannot help feeling that she possesses an uncommonunion of symmetry, brilliancy, and grace. Her address to me was sogentle, frank, and even affectionate, that, if I had not known how muchshe has always disliked me for marrying Mr. Vernon, and that we hadnever met before, I should have imagined her an attached friend. Oneis apt, I believe, to connect assurance of manner with coquetry, and toexpect that an impudent address will naturally attend an impudent mind;at least I was myself prepared for an improper degree of confidence inLady Susan; but her countenance is absolutely sweet, and her voice andmanner winningly mild. I am sorry it is so, for what is this but deceit?Unfortunately, one knows her too well. She is clever and agreeable, hasall that knowledge of the world which makes conversation easy, and talksvery well, with a happy command of language, which is too often used, Ibelieve, to make black appear white. She has already almost persuaded meof her being warmly attached to her daughter, though I have been so longconvinced to the contrary. She speaks of her with so much tenderness andanxiety, lamenting so bitterly the neglect of her education, which sherepresents however as wholly unavoidable, that I am forced to recollecthow many successive springs her ladyship spent in town, while herdaughter was left in Staffordshire to the care of servants, or agoverness very little better, to prevent my believing what she says.If her manners have so great an influence on my resentful heart, youmay judge how much more strongly they operate on Mr. Vernon's generoustemper. I wish I could be as well satisfied as he is, that it was reallyher choice to leave Langford for Churchhill; and if she had not stayedthere for months before she discovered that her friend's manner ofliving did not suit her situation or feelings, I might have believedthat concern for the loss of such a husband as Mr. Vernon, to whom herown behaviour was far from unexceptionable, might for a time make herwish for retirement. But I cannot forget the length of her visit to theMainwarings, and when I reflect on the different mode of life which sheled with them from that to which she must now submit, I can only supposethat the wish of establishing her reputation by following though latethe path of propriety, occasioned her removal from a family where shemust in reality have been particularly happy. Your friend Mr. Smith'sstory, however, cannot be quite correct, as she corresponds regularlywith Mrs. Mainwaring. At any rate it must be exaggerated. It is scarcelypossible that two men should be so grossly deceived by her at once.Yours, &c.,CATHERINE VERNONVIILADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS. JOHNSONChurchhill.My dear Alicia,--You are very good in taking notice of Frederica, andI am grateful for it as a mark of your friendship; but as I cannot haveany doubt of the warmth of your affection, I am far from exacting soheavy a sacrifice. She is a stupid girl, and has nothing to recommendher. I would not, therefore, on my account, have you encumber one momentof your precious time by sending for her to Edward Street, especiallyas every visit is so much deducted from the grand affair of education,which I really wish to have attended to while she remains at MissSummers's. I want her to play and sing with some portion of taste anda good deal of assurance, as she has my hand and arm and a tolerablevoice. I was so much indulged in my infant years that I was neverobliged to attend to anything, and consequently am without theaccomplishments which are now necessary to finish a pretty woman. Notthat I am an advocate for the prevailing fashion of acquiring a perfectknowledge of all languages, arts, and sciences. It is throwing timeaway to be mistress of French, Italian, and German: music, singing,and drawing, &c., will gain a woman some applause, but will not addone lover to her list--grace and manner, after all, are of the greatestimportance. I do not mean, therefore, that Frederica's acquirementsshould be more than superficial, and I flatter myself that she will notremain long enough at school to understand anything thoroughly. I hopeto see her the wife of Sir James within a twelvemonth. You know on whatI ground my hope, and it is certainly a good foundation, for school mustbe very humiliating to a girl of Frederica's age. And, by-the-by, youhad better not invite her any more on that account, as I wish her tofind her situation as unpleasant as possible. I am sure of Sir James atany time, and could make him renew his application by a line. I shalltrouble you meanwhile to prevent his forming any other attachment whenhe comes to town. Ask him to your house occasionally, and talk to him ofFrederica, that he may not forget her. Upon the whole, I commend my ownconduct in this affair extremely, and regard it as a very happy instanceof circumspection and tenderness. Some mothers would have insisted ontheir daughter's accepting so good an offer on the first overture; but Icould not reconcile it to myself to force Frederica into a marriage fromwhich her heart revolted, and instead of adopting so harsh a measuremerely propose to make it her own choice, by rendering her thoroughlyuncomfortable till she does accept him--but enough of this tiresomegirl. You may well wonder how I contrive to pass my time here, and forthe first week it was insufferably dull. Now, however, we begin to mend,our party is enlarged by Mrs. Vernon's brother, a handsome young man,who promises me some amusement. There is something about him whichrather interests me, a sort of sauciness and familiarity which I shallteach him to correct. He is lively, and seems clever, and when I haveinspired him with greater respect for me than his sister's kind officeshave implanted, he may be an agreeable flirt. There is exquisitepleasure in subduing an insolent spirit, in making a personpredetermined to dislike acknowledge one's superiority. I havedisconcerted him already by my calm reserve, and it shall be myendeavour to humble the pride of these self important De Courcys stilllower, to convince Mrs. Vernon that her sisterly cautions have beenbestowed in vain, and to persuade Reginald that she has scandalouslybelied me. This project will serve at least to amuse me, and preventmy feeling so acutely this dreadful separation from you and all whom Ilove.Yours ever,S. VERNON.VIIIMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhill.My dear Mother,--You must not expect Reginald back again for some time.He desires me to tell you that the present open weather induces him toaccept Mr. Vernon's invitation to prolong his stay in Sussex, thatthey may have some hunting together. He means to send for his horsesimmediately, and it is impossible to say when you may see him in Kent. Iwill not disguise my sentiments on this change from you, my dear mother,though I think you had better not communicate them to my father, whoseexcessive anxiety about Reginald would subject him to an alarm whichmight seriously affect his health and spirits. Lady Susan has certainlycontrived, in the space of a fortnight, to make my brother like her.In short, I am persuaded that his continuing here beyond the timeoriginally fixed for his return is occasioned as much by a degree offascination towards her, as by the wish of hunting with Mr. Vernon, andof course I cannot receive that pleasure from the length of his visitwhich my brother's company would otherwise give me. I am, indeed,provoked at the artifice of this unprincipled woman; what strongerproof of her dangerous abilities can be given than this perversion ofReginald's judgment, which when he entered the house was so decidedlyagainst her! In his last letter he actually gave me some particulars ofher behaviour at Langford, such as he received from a gentleman who knewher perfectly well, which, if true, must raise abhorrence against her,and which Reginald himself was entirely disposed to credit. His opinionof her, I am sure, was as low as of any woman in England; and when hefirst came it was evident that he considered her as one entitled neitherto delicacy nor respect, and that he felt she would be delighted withthe attentions of any man inclined to flirt with her. Her behaviour, Iconfess, has been calculated to do away with such an idea; I havenot detected the smallest impropriety in it--nothing of vanity, ofpretension, of levity; and she is altogether so attractive that I shouldnot wonder at his being delighted with her, had he known nothing of herprevious to this personal acquaintance; but, against reason, againstconviction, to be so well pleased with her, as I am sure he is, doesreally astonish me. His admiration was at first very strong, but no morethan was natural, and I did not wonder at his being much struck by thegentleness and delicacy of her manners; but when he has mentioned her oflate it has been in terms of more extraordinary praise; and yesterday heactually said that he could not be surprised at any effect producedon the heart of man by such loveliness and such abilities; and when Ilamented, in reply, the badness of her disposition, he observed thatwhatever might have been her errors they were to be imputed to herneglected education and early marriage, and that she was altogether awonderful woman. This tendency to excuse her conduct or to forget it, inthe warmth of admiration, vexes me; and if I did not know that Reginaldis too much at home at Churchhill to need an invitation for lengtheninghis visit, I should regret Mr. Vernon's giving him any. Lady Susan'sintentions are of course those of absolute coquetry, or a desireof universal admiration; I cannot for a moment imagine that she hasanything more serious in view; but it mortifies me to see a young man ofReginald's sense duped by her at all.I am, &c.,CATHERINE VERNON.IXMRS. JOHNSON TO LADY S. VERNONEdward Street.My dearest Friend,--I congratulate you on Mr. De Courcy's arrival, andI advise you by all means to marry him; his father's estate is, we know,considerable, and I believe certainly entailed. Sir Reginald is veryinfirm, and not likely to stand in your way long. I hear the young manwell spoken of; and though no one can really deserve you, my dearestSusan, Mr. De Courcy may be worth having. Mainwaring will storm ofcourse, but you easily pacify him; besides, the most scrupulous point ofhonour could not require you to wait for HIS emancipation. I have seenSir James; he came to town for a few days last week, and called severaltimes in Edward Street. I talked to him about you and your daughter, andhe is so far from having forgotten you, that I am sure he would marryeither of you with pleasure. I gave him hopes of Frederica's relenting,and told him a great deal of her improvements. I scolded him for makinglove to Maria Mainwaring; he protested that he had been only in joke,and we both laughed heartily at her disappointment; and, in short, werevery agreeable. He is as silly as ever.Yours faithfully,ALICIA.XLADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS. JOHNSONChurchhill.I am much obliged to you, my dear Friend, for your advice respectingMr. De Courcy, which I know was given with the full conviction of itsexpediency, though I am not quite determined on following it. I cannoteasily resolve on anything so serious as marriage; especially as Iam not at present in want of money, and might perhaps, till the oldgentleman's death, be very little benefited by the match. It is truethat I am vain enough to believe it within my reach. I have made himsensible of my power, and can now enjoy the pleasure of triumphingover a mind prepared to dislike me, and prejudiced against all mypast actions. His sister, too, is, I hope, convinced how little theungenerous representations of anyone to the disadvantage of another willavail when opposed by the immediate influence of intellect and manner. Isee plainly that she is uneasy at my progress in the good opinion ofher brother, and conclude that nothing will be wanting on her part tocounteract me; but having once made him doubt the justice of her opinionof me, I think I may defy her. It has been delightful to me to watchhis advances towards intimacy, especially to observe his altered mannerin consequence of my repressing by the cool dignity of my deportmenthis insolent approach to direct familiarity. My conduct has been equallyguarded from the first, and I never behaved less like a coquette in thewhole course of my life, though perhaps my desire of dominion was nevermore decided. I have subdued him entirely by sentiment and seriousconversation, and made him, I may venture to say, at least half in lovewith me, without the semblance of the most commonplace flirtation. Mrs.Vernon's consciousness of deserving every sort of revenge that it canbe in my power to inflict for her ill-offices could alone enable herto perceive that I am actuated by any design in behaviour so gentleand unpretending. Let her think and act as she chooses, however. I havenever yet found that the advice of a sister could prevent a youngman's being in love if he chose. We are advancing now to some kind ofconfidence, and in short are likely to be engaged in a sort of platonicfriendship. On my side you may be sure of its never being more, for ifI were not attached to another person as much as I can be to anyone, Ishould make a point of not bestowing my affection on a man who had daredto think so meanly of me. Reginald has a good figure and is not unworthythe praise you have heard given him, but is still greatly inferiorto our friend at Langford. He is less polished, less insinuating thanMainwaring, and is comparatively deficient in the power of saying thosedelightful things which put one in good humour with oneself and all theworld. He is quite agreeable enough, however, to afford me amusement,and to make many of those hours pass very pleasantly which wouldotherwise be spent in endeavouring to overcome my sister-in-law'sreserve, and listening to the insipid talk of her husband. Your accountof Sir James is most satisfactory, and I mean to give Miss Frederica ahint of my intentions very soon.Yours, &c.,S. VERNON.XIMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhillI really grow quite uneasy, my dearest mother, about Reginald, fromwitnessing the very rapid increase of Lady Susan's influence. They arenow on terms of the most particular friendship, frequently engaged inlong conversations together; and she has contrived by the most artfulcoquetry to subdue his judgment to her own purposes. It is impossibleto see the intimacy between them so very soon established without somealarm, though I can hardly suppose that Lady Susan's plans extend tomarriage. I wish you could get Reginald home again on any plausiblepretence; he is not at all disposed to leave us, and I have given him asmany hints of my father's precarious state of health as common decencywill allow me to do in my own house. Her power over him must now beboundless, as she has entirely effaced all his former ill-opinion,and persuaded him not merely to forget but to justify her conduct. Mr.Smith's account of her proceedings at Langford, where he accused her ofhaving made Mr. Mainwaring and a young man engaged to Miss Mainwaringdistractedly in love with her, which Reginald firmly believed when hecame here, is now, he is persuaded, only a scandalous invention. Hehas told me so with a warmth of manner which spoke his regret at havingbelieved the contrary himself. How sincerely do I grieve that sheever entered this house! I always looked forward to her coming withuneasiness; but very far was it from originating in anxiety forReginald. I expected a most disagreeable companion for myself, but couldnot imagine that my brother would be in the smallest danger of beingcaptivated by a woman with whose principles he was so well acquainted,and whose character he so heartily despised. If you can get him away itwill be a good thing.Yours, &c.,CATHERINE VERNON.XIISIR REGINALD DE COURCY TO HIS SONParklands.I know that young men in general do not admit of any enquiry even fromtheir nearest relations into affairs of the heart, but I hope, my dearReginald, that you will be superior to such as allow nothing for afather's anxiety, and think themselves privileged to refuse him theirconfidence and slight his advice. You must be sensible that as an onlyson, and the representative of an ancient family, your conduct in lifeis most interesting to your connections; and in the very importantconcern of marriage especially, there is everything at stake--your ownhappiness, that of your parents, and the credit of your name. I do notsuppose that you would deliberately form an absolute engagement of thatnature without acquainting your mother and myself, or at least, withoutbeing convinced that we should approve of your choice; but I cannot helpfearing that you may be drawn in, by the lady who has lately attachedyou, to a marriage which the whole of your family, far and near, musthighly reprobate. Lady Susan's age is itself a material objection, buther want of character is one so much more serious, that the differenceof even twelve years becomes in comparison of small amount. Were you notblinded by a sort of fascination, it would be ridiculous in me to repeatthe instances of great misconduct on her side so very generally known.Her neglect of her husband, her encouragement of other men, herextravagance and dissipation, were so gross and notorious that no onecould be ignorant of them at the time, nor can now have forgotten them.To our family she has always been represented in softened colours bythe benevolence of Mr. Charles Vernon, and yet, in spite of his generousendeavours to excuse her, we know that she did, from the most selfishmotives, take all possible pains to prevent his marriage with Catherine.My years and increasing infirmities make me very desirous of seeing yousettled in the world. To the fortune of a wife, the goodness of my ownwill make me indifferent, but her family and character must be equallyunexceptionable. When your choice is fixed so that no objection can bemade to it, then I can promise you a ready and cheerful consent; but itis my duty to oppose a match which deep art only could render possible,and must in the end make wretched. It is possible her behaviour mayarise only from vanity, or the wish of gaining the admiration of a manwhom she must imagine to be particularly prejudiced against her; but itis more likely that she should aim at something further. She is poor,and may naturally seek an alliance which must be advantageous toherself; you know your own rights, and that it is out of my power toprevent your inheriting the family estate. My ability of distressingyou during my life would be a species of revenge to which I could hardlystoop under any circumstances.I honestly tell you my sentiments and intentions: I do not wish to workon your fears, but on your sense and affection. It would destroy everycomfort of my life to know that you were married to Lady Susan Vernon;it would be the death of that honest pride with which I have hithertoconsidered my son; I should blush to see him, to hear of him, to thinkof him. I may perhaps do no good but that of relieving my own mind bythis letter, but I felt it my duty to tell you that your partiality forLady Susan is no secret to your friends, and to warn you against her.I should be glad to hear your reasons for disbelieving Mr. Smith'sintelligence; you had no doubt of its authenticity a month ago. Ifyou can give me your assurance of having no design beyond enjoyingthe conversation of a clever woman for a short period, and of yieldingadmiration only to her beauty and abilities, without being blinded bythem to her faults, you will restore me to happiness; but, if you cannotdo this, explain to me, at least, what has occasioned so great analteration in your opinion of her.I am, &c., &c,REGINALD DE COURCYXIIILADY DE COURCY TO MRS. VERNONParklands.My dear Catherine,--Unluckily I was confined to my room when your lastletter came, by a cold which affected my eyes so much as to prevent myreading it myself, so I could not refuse your father when he offeredto read it to me, by which means he became acquainted, to my greatvexation, with all your fears about your brother. I had intended towrite to Reginald myself as soon as my eyes would let me, to point out,as well as I could, the danger of an intimate acquaintance, with soartful a woman as Lady Susan, to a young man of his age, and highexpectations. I meant, moreover, to have reminded him of our being quitealone now, and very much in need of him to keep up our spirits theselong winter evenings. Whether it would have done any good can never besettled now, but I am excessively vexed that Sir Reginald should knowanything of a matter which we foresaw would make him so uneasy. Hecaught all your fears the moment he had read your letter, and I am surehe has not had the business out of his head since. He wrote by the samepost to Reginald a long letter full of it all, and particularly askingan explanation of what he may have heard from Lady Susan to contradictthe late shocking reports. His answer came this morning, which I shallenclose to you, as I think you will like to see it. I wish it was moresatisfactory; but it seems written with such a determination to thinkwell of Lady Susan, that his assurances as to marriage, &c., do not setmy heart at ease. I say all I can, however, to satisfy your father, andhe is certainly less uneasy since Reginald's letter. How provoking itis, my dear Catherine, that this unwelcome guest of yours should notonly prevent our meeting this Christmas, but be the occasion of so muchvexation and trouble! Kiss the dear children for me.Your affectionate mother,C. DE COURCY.XIVMR. DE COURCY TO SIR REGINALDChurchhill.My dear Sir,--I have this moment received your letter, which has givenme more astonishment than I ever felt before. I am to thank my sister,I suppose, for having represented me in such a light as to injure mein your opinion, and give you all this alarm. I know not why she shouldchoose to make herself and her family uneasy by apprehending anevent which no one but herself, I can affirm, would ever have thoughtpossible. To impute such a design to Lady Susan would be taking from herevery claim to that excellent understanding which her bitterest enemieshave never denied her; and equally low must sink my pretensions tocommon sense if I am suspected of matrimonial views in my behaviourto her. Our difference of age must be an insuperable objection, and Ientreat you, my dear father, to quiet your mind, and no longer harboura suspicion which cannot be more injurious to your own peace than to ourunderstandings. I can have no other view in remaining with Lady Susan,than to enjoy for a short time (as you have yourself expressed it) theconversation of a woman of high intellectual powers. If Mrs. Vernonwould allow something to my affection for herself and her husband in thelength of my visit, she would do more justice to us all; but my sisteris unhappily prejudiced beyond the hope of conviction against LadySusan. From an attachment to her husband, which in itself does honour toboth, she cannot forgive the endeavours at preventing their union, whichhave been attributed to selfishness in Lady Susan; but in this case, aswell as in many others, the world has most grossly injured that lady, bysupposing the worst where the motives of her conduct have been doubtful.Lady Susan had heard something so materially to the disadvantage of mysister as to persuade her that the happiness of Mr. Vernon, to whom shewas always much attached, would be wholly destroyed by the marriage. Andthis circumstance, while it explains the true motives of Lady Susan'sconduct, and removes all the blame which has been so lavished on her,may also convince us how little the general report of anyone ought tobe credited; since no character, however upright, can escape themalevolence of slander. If my sister, in the security of retirement,with as little opportunity as inclination to do evil, could not avoidcensure, we must not rashly condemn those who, living in the world andsurrounded with temptations, should be accused of errors which they areknown to have the power of committing.I blame myself severely for having so easily believed the slanderoustales invented by Charles Smith to the prejudice of Lady Susan, as Iam now convinced how greatly they have traduced her. As to Mrs.Mainwaring's jealousy it was totally his own invention, and his accountof her attaching Miss Mainwaring's lover was scarcely better founded.Sir James Martin had been drawn in by that young lady to pay her someattention; and as he is a man of fortune, it was easy to see HER viewsextended to marriage. It is well known that Miss M. is absolutely on thecatch for a husband, and no one therefore can pity her for losing, bythe superior attractions of another woman, the chance of being able tomake a worthy man completely wretched. Lady Susan was far from intendingsuch a conquest, and on finding how warmly Miss Mainwaring resented herlover's defection, determined, in spite of Mr. and Mrs. Mainwaring'smost urgent entreaties, to leave the family. I have reason to imagineshe did receive serious proposals from Sir James, but her removing toLangford immediately on the discovery of his attachment, must acquit heron that article with any mind of common candour. You will, I am sure, mydear Sir, feel the truth of this, and will hereby learn to do justice tothe character of a very injured woman. I know that Lady Susan in comingto Churchhill was governed only by the most honourable and amiableintentions; her prudence and economy are exemplary, her regard for Mr.Vernon equal even to HIS deserts; and her wish of obtaining my sister'sgood opinion merits a better return than it has received. As a mothershe is unexceptionable; her solid affection for her child is shown byplacing her in hands where her education will be properly attended to;but because she has not the blind and weak partiality of most mothers,she is accused of wanting maternal tenderness. Every person of sense,however, will know how to value and commend her well-directed affection,and will join me in wishing that Frederica Vernon may prove more worthythan she has yet done of her mother's tender care. I have now, my dearfather, written my real sentiments of Lady Susan; you will know fromthis letter how highly I admire her abilities, and esteem her character;but if you are not equally convinced by my full and solemn assurancethat your fears have been most idly created, you will deeply mortify anddistress me.I am, &c., &c.,R. DE COURCY.XVMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhillMy dear Mother,--I return you Reginald's letter, and rejoice with allmy heart that my father is made easy by it: tell him so, with mycongratulations; but, between ourselves, I must own it has onlyconvinced ME of my brother's having no PRESENT intention of marryingLady Susan, not that he is in no danger of doing so three months hence.He gives a very plausible account of her behaviour at Langford; I wishit may be true, but his intelligence must come from herself, and Iam less disposed to believe it than to lament the degree of intimacysubsisting between them, implied by the discussion of such a subject. Iam sorry to have incurred his displeasure, but can expect nothing betterwhile he is so very eager in Lady Susan's justification. He is verysevere against me indeed, and yet I hope I have not been hasty inmy judgment of her. Poor woman! though I have reasons enough formy dislike, I cannot help pitying her at present, as she is in realdistress, and with too much cause. She had this morning a letter fromthe lady with whom she has placed her daughter, to request that MissVernon might be immediately removed, as she had been detected in anattempt to run away. Why, or whither she intended to go, does notappear; but, as her situation seems to have been unexceptionable, it isa sad thing, and of course highly distressing to Lady Susan. Fredericamust be as much as sixteen, and ought to know better; but from whather mother insinuates, I am afraid she is a perverse girl. She hasbeen sadly neglected, however, and her mother ought to remember it. Mr.Vernon set off for London as soon as she had determined what should bedone. He is, if possible, to prevail on Miss Summers to let Fredericacontinue with her; and if he cannot succeed, to bring her to Churchhillfor the present, till some other situation can be found for her.Her ladyship is comforting herself meanwhile by strolling along theshrubbery with Reginald, calling forth all his tender feelings, Isuppose, on this distressing occasion. She has been talking a great dealabout it to me. She talks vastly well; I am afraid of being ungenerous,or I should say, TOO well to feel so very deeply; but I will not lookfor her faults; she may be Reginald's wife! Heaven forbid it! but whyshould I be quicker-sighted than anyone else? Mr. Vernon declares thathe never saw deeper distress than hers, on the receipt of the letter;and is his judgment inferior to mine? She was very unwilling thatFrederica should be allowed to come to Churchhill, and justly enough, asit seems a sort of reward to behaviour deserving very differently; butit was impossible to take her anywhere else, and she is not to remainhere long. "It will be absolutely necessary," said she, "as you, my dearsister, must be sensible, to treat my daughter with some severity whileshe is here; a most painful necessity, but I will ENDEAVOUR to submit toit. I am afraid I have often been too indulgent, but my poor Frederica'stemper could never bear opposition well: you must support and encourageme; you must urge the necessity of reproof if you see me too lenient."All this sounds very reasonable. Reginald is so incensed against thepoor silly girl. Surely it is not to Lady Susan's credit that he shouldbe so bitter against her daughter; his idea of her must be drawn fromthe mother's description. Well, whatever may be his fate, we have thecomfort of knowing that we have done our utmost to save him. We mustcommit the event to a higher power.Yours ever, &c.,CATHERINE VERNON.XVILADY SUSAN TO MRS. JOHNSONChurchhill.Never, my dearest Alicia, was I so provoked in my life as by a letterthis morning from Miss Summers. That horrid girl of mine has been tryingto run away. I had not a notion of her being such a little devil before,she seemed to have all the Vernon milkiness; but on receiving the letterin which I declared my intention about Sir James, she actually attemptedto elope; at least, I cannot otherwise account for her doing it. Shemeant, I suppose, to go to the Clarkes in Staffordshire, for she has noother acquaintances. But she shall be punished, she shall have him. Ihave sent Charles to town to make matters up if he can, for I do notby any means want her here. If Miss Summers will not keep her, you mustfind me out another school, unless we can get her married immediately.Miss S. writes word that she could not get the young lady to assignany cause for her extraordinary conduct, which confirms me in my ownprevious explanation of it. Frederica is too shy, I think, and too muchin awe of me to tell tales, but if the mildness of her uncle should getanything out of her, I am not afraid. I trust I shall be able to make mystory as good as hers. If I am vain of anything, it is of my eloquence.Consideration and esteem as surely follow command of language asadmiration waits on beauty, and here I have opportunity enough for theexercise of my talent, as the chief of my time is spent in conversation.Reginald is never easy unless we are by ourselves, and when the weatheris tolerable, we pace the shrubbery for hours together. I like him onthe whole very well; he is clever and has a good deal to say, but heis sometimes impertinent and troublesome. There is a sort of ridiculousdelicacy about him which requires the fullest explanation of whatever hemay have heard to my disadvantage, and is never satisfied till he thinkshe has ascertained the beginning and end of everything. This is one sortof love, but I confess it does not particularly recommend itself to me.I infinitely prefer the tender and liberal spirit of Mainwaring, which,impressed with the deepest conviction of my merit, is satisfied thatwhatever I do must be right; and look with a degree of contempt onthe inquisitive and doubtful fancies of that heart which seems alwaysdebating on the reasonableness of its emotions. Mainwaring is indeed,beyond all compare, superior to Reginald--superior in everything but thepower of being with me! Poor fellow! he is much distracted by jealousy,which I am not sorry for, as I know no better support of love. He hasbeen teazing me to allow of his coming into this country, and lodgingsomewhere near INCOG.; but I forbade everything of the kind. Those womenare inexcusable who forget what is due to themselves, and the opinion ofthe world.Yours ever, S. VERNON.XVIIMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhill.My dear Mother,--Mr. Vernon returned on Thursday night, bringing hisniece with him. Lady Susan had received a line from him by that day'spost, informing her that Miss Summers had absolutely refused to allow ofMiss Vernon's continuance in her academy; we were therefore prepared forher arrival, and expected them impatiently the whole evening. They camewhile we were at tea, and I never saw any creature look so frightened asFrederica when she entered the room. Lady Susan, who had been sheddingtears before, and showing great agitation at the idea of the meeting,received her with perfect self-command, and without betraying theleast tenderness of spirit. She hardly spoke to her, and on Frederica'sbursting into tears as soon as we were seated, took her out of the room,and did not return for some time. When she did, her eyes looked very redand she was as much agitated as before. We saw no more of her daughter.Poor Reginald was beyond measure concerned to see his fair friend insuch distress, and watched her with so much tender solicitude, that I,who occasionally caught her observing his countenance with exultation,was quite out of patience. This pathetic representation lasted the wholeevening, and so ostentatious and artful a display has entirely convincedme that she did in fact feel nothing. I am more angry with her than eversince I have seen her daughter; the poor girl looks so unhappy that myheart aches for her. Lady Susan is surely too severe, for Fredericadoes not seem to have the sort of temper to make severity necessary.She looks perfectly timid, dejected, and penitent. She is verypretty, though not so handsome as her mother, nor at all like her. Hercomplexion is delicate, but neither so fair nor so blooming as LadySusan's, and she has quite the Vernon cast of countenance, the oval faceand mild dark eyes, and there is peculiar sweetness in her look when shespeaks either to her uncle or me, for as we behave kindly to her we haveof course engaged her gratitude.Her mother has insinuated that her temper is intractable, but I neversaw a face less indicative of any evil disposition than hers; and fromwhat I can see of the behaviour of each to the other, the invariableseverity of Lady Susan and the silent dejection of Frederica, I amled to believe as heretofore that the former has no real love for herdaughter, and has never done her justice or treated her affectionately.I have not been able to have any conversation with my niece; she is shy,and I think I can see that some pains are taken to prevent her beingmuch with me. Nothing satisfactory transpires as to her reason forrunning away. Her kind-hearted uncle, you may be sure, was too fearfulof distressing her to ask many questions as they travelled. I wish ithad been possible for me to fetch her instead of him. I think I shouldhave discovered the truth in the course of a thirty-mile journey. Thesmall pianoforte has been removed within these few days, at Lady Susan'srequest, into her dressing-room, and Frederica spends great part of theday there, practising as it is called; but I seldom hear any noise whenI pass that way; what she does with herself there I do not know. Thereare plenty of books, but it is not every girl who has been runningwild the first fifteen years of her life, that can or will read. Poorcreature! the prospect from her window is not very instructive, for thatroom overlooks the lawn, you know, with the shrubbery on one side,where she may see her mother walking for an hour together in earnestconversation with Reginald. A girl of Frederica's age must be childishindeed, if such things do not strike her. Is it not inexcusable to givesuch an example to a daughter? Yet Reginald still thinks Lady Susan thebest of mothers, and still condemns Frederica as a worthless girl! Heis convinced that her attempt to run away proceeded from no, justifiablecause, and had no provocation. I am sure I cannot say that it HAD,but while Miss Summers declares that Miss Vernon showed no signs ofobstinacy or perverseness during her whole stay in Wigmore Street, tillshe was detected in this scheme, I cannot so readily credit what LadySusan has made him, and wants to make me believe, that it was merelyan impatience of restraint and a desire of escaping from the tuition ofmasters which brought on the plan of an elopement. O Reginald, how isyour judgment enslaved! He scarcely dares even allow her to be handsome,and when I speak of her beauty, replies only that her eyes have nobrilliancy! Sometimes he is sure she is deficient in understanding, andat others that her temper only is in fault. In short, when a person isalways to deceive, it is impossible to be consistent. Lady Susanfinds it necessary that Frederica should be to blame, and probably hassometimes judged it expedient to excuse her of ill-nature and sometimesto lament her want of sense. Reginald is only repeating after herladyship.I remain, &c., &c.,CATHERINE VERNON.XVIIIFROM THE SAME TO THE SAMEChurchhill.My dear Mother,--I am very glad to find that my description of FredericaVernon has interested you, for I do believe her truly deserving of yourregard; and when I have communicated a notion which has recently struckme, your kind impressions in her favour will, I am sure, be heightened.I cannot help fancying that she is growing partial to my brother. I sovery often see her eyes fixed on his face with a remarkable expressionof pensive admiration. He is certainly very handsome; and yet more,there is an openness in his manner that must be highly prepossessing,and I am sure she feels it so. Thoughtful and pensive in general, hercountenance always brightens into a smile when Reginald says anythingamusing; and, let the subject be ever so serious that he may beconversing on, I am much mistaken if a syllable of his uttering escapesher. I want to make him sensible of all this, for we know the powerof gratitude on such a heart as his; and could Frederica's artlessaffection detach him from her mother, we might bless the day whichbrought her to Churchhill. I think, my dear mother, you would notdisapprove of her as a daughter. She is extremely young, to be sure,has had a wretched education, and a dreadful example of levity in hermother; but yet I can pronounce her disposition to be excellent, and hernatural abilities very good. Though totally without accomplishments, sheis by no means so ignorant as one might expect to find her, being fondof books and spending the chief of her time in reading. Her motherleaves her more to herself than she did, and I have her with me as muchas possible, and have taken great pains to overcome her timidity. Weare very good friends, and though she never opens her lips before hermother, she talks enough when alone with me to make it clear that, ifproperly treated by Lady Susan, she would always appear to much greateradvantage. There cannot be a more gentle, affectionate heart; or moreobliging manners, when acting without restraint; and her little cousinsare all very fond of her.Your affectionate daughter,C. VERNONXIXLADY SUSAN TO MRS. JOHNSONChurchhill.You will be eager, I know, to hear something further of Frederica, andperhaps may think me negligent for not writing before. She arrived withher uncle last Thursday fortnight, when, of course, I lost no time indemanding the cause of her behaviour; and soon found myself to have beenperfectly right in attributing it to my own letter. The prospect ofit frightened her so thoroughly, that, with a mixture of true girlishperverseness and folly, she resolved on getting out of the house andproceeding directly by the stage to her friends, the Clarkes; and hadreally got as far as the length of two streets in her journey whenshe was fortunately missed, pursued, and overtaken. Such was the firstdistinguished exploit of Miss Frederica Vernon; and, if we consider thatit was achieved at the tender age of sixteen, we shall have room forthe most flattering prognostics of her future renown. I am excessivelyprovoked, however, at the parade of propriety which prevented MissSummers from keeping the girl; and it seems so extraordinary a piece ofnicety, considering my daughter's family connections, that I can onlysuppose the lady to be governed by the fear of never getting her money.Be that as it may, however, Frederica is returned on my hands; and,having nothing else to employ her, is busy in pursuing the plan ofromance begun at Langford. She is actually falling in love with ReginaldDe Courcy! To disobey her mother by refusing an unexceptionable offeris not enough; her affections must also be given without her mother'sapprobation. I never saw a girl of her age bid fairer to be the sportof mankind. Her feelings are tolerably acute, and she is so charminglyartless in their display as to afford the most reasonable hope of herbeing ridiculous, and despised by every man who sees her.Artlessness will never do in love matters; and that girl is born asimpleton who has it either by nature or affectation. I am not yetcertain that Reginald sees what she is about, nor is it of muchconsequence. She is now an object of indifference to him, and she wouldbe one of contempt were he to understand her emotions. Her beauty ismuch admired by the Vernons, but it has no effect on him. She is in highfavour with her aunt altogether, because she is so little like myself,of course. She is exactly the companion for Mrs. Vernon, who dearlyloves to be firm, and to have all the sense and all the wit of theconversation to herself: Frederica will never eclipse her. When shefirst came I was at some pains to prevent her seeing much of her aunt;but I have relaxed, as I believe I may depend on her observing the rulesI have laid down for their discourse. But do not imagine that with allthis lenity I have for a moment given up my plan of her marriage. No; Iam unalterably fixed on this point, though I have not yet quite decidedon the manner of bringing it about. I should not chuse to have thebusiness brought on here, and canvassed by the wise heads of Mr. andMrs. Vernon; and I cannot just now afford to go to town. Miss Fredericamust therefore wait a little.Yours ever,S. VERNON.XXMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhillWe have a very unexpected guest with us at present, my dear Mother: hearrived yesterday. I heard a carriage at the door, as I was sitting withmy children while they dined; and supposing I should be wanted, left thenursery soon afterwards, and was half-way downstairs, when Frederica,as pale as ashes, came running up, and rushed by me into her own room.I instantly followed, and asked her what was the matter. "Oh!" saidshe, "he is come--Sir James is come, and what shall I do?" This was noexplanation; I begged her to tell me what she meant. At that moment wewere interrupted by a knock at the door: it was Reginald, who came, byLady Susan's direction, to call Frederica down. "It is Mr. De Courcy!"said she, colouring violently. "Mamma has sent for me; I must go."We all three went down together; and I saw my brother examining theterrified face of Frederica with surprize. In the breakfast-room wefound Lady Susan, and a young man of gentlemanlike appearance, whom sheintroduced by the name of Sir James Martin--the very person, as you mayremember, whom it was said she had been at pains to detach from MissMainwaring; but the conquest, it seems, was not designed for herself,or she has since transferred it to her daughter; for Sir James is nowdesperately in love with Frederica, and with full encouragement frommamma. The poor girl, however, I am sure, dislikes him; and though hisperson and address are very well, he appears, both to Mr. Vernon andme, a very weak young man. Frederica looked so shy, so confused, whenwe entered the room, that I felt for her exceedingly. Lady Susan behavedwith great attention to her visitor; and yet I thought I could perceivethat she had no particular pleasure in seeing him. Sir James talked agreat deal, and made many civil excuses to me for the liberty he hadtaken in coming to Churchhill--mixing more frequent laughter with hisdiscourse than the subject required--said many things over and overagain, and told Lady Susan three times that he had seen Mrs. Johnsona few evenings before. He now and then addressed Frederica, but morefrequently her mother. The poor girl sat all this time without openingher lips--her eyes cast down, and her colour varying every instant;while Reginald observed all that passed in perfect silence. At lengthLady Susan, weary, I believe, of her situation, proposed walking; andwe left the two gentlemen together, to put on our pelisses. As we wentupstairs Lady Susan begged permission to attend me for a few moments inmy dressing-room, as she was anxious to speak with me in private. I ledher thither accordingly, and as soon as the door was closed, she said:"I was never more surprized in my life than by Sir James's arrival,and the suddenness of it requires some apology to you, my dear sister;though to ME, as a mother, it is highly flattering. He is so extremelyattached to my daughter that he could not exist longer without seeingher. Sir James is a young man of an amiable disposition and excellentcharacter; a little too much of the rattle, perhaps, but a year or twowill rectify THAT: and he is in other respects so very eligible a matchfor Frederica, that I have always observed his attachment with thegreatest pleasure; and am persuaded that you and my brother will givethe alliance your hearty approbation. I have never before mentioned thelikelihood of its taking place to anyone, because I thought that whilstFrederica continued at school it had better not be known to exist;but now, as I am convinced that Frederica is too old ever to submit toschool confinement, and have, therefore, begun to consider her unionwith Sir James as not very distant, I had intended within a few days toacquaint yourself and Mr. Vernon with the whole business. I am sure, mydear sister, you will excuse my remaining silent so long, and agreewith me that such circumstances, while they continue from any causein suspense, cannot be too cautiously concealed. When you have thehappiness of bestowing your sweet little Catherine, some years hence, ona man who in connection and character is alike unexceptionable, youwill know what I feel now; though, thank Heaven, you cannot have all myreasons for rejoicing in such an event. Catherine will be amply providedfor, and not, like my Frederica, indebted to a fortunateestablishment for the comforts of life." She concluded by demandingmy congratulations. I gave them somewhat awkwardly, I believe; for, infact, the sudden disclosure of so important a matter took from me thepower of speaking with any clearness. She thanked me, however, mostaffectionately, for my kind concern in the welfare of herself anddaughter; and then said: "I am not apt to deal in professions, mydear Mrs. Vernon, and I never had the convenient talent of affectingsensations foreign to my heart; and therefore I trust you will believeme when I declare, that much as I had heard in your praise before I knewyou, I had no idea that I should ever love you as I now do; and Imust further say that your friendship towards me is more particularlygratifying because I have reason to believe that some attempts were madeto prejudice you against me. I only wish that they, whoever they are,to whom I am indebted for such kind intentions, could see the terms onwhich we now are together, and understand the real affection we feelfor each other; but I will not detain you any longer. God bless you, foryour goodness to me and my girl, and continue to you all your presenthappiness." What can one say of such a woman, my dear mother? Suchearnestness such solemnity of expression! and yet I cannot helpsuspecting the truth of everything she says. As for Reginald, I believehe does not know what to make of the matter. When Sir James came, heappeared all astonishment and perplexity; the folly of the young man andthe confusion of Frederica entirely engrossed him; and though a littleprivate discourse with Lady Susan has since had its effect, he is stillhurt, I am sure, at her allowing of such a man's attentions to herdaughter. Sir James invited himself with great composure to remain herea few days--hoped we would not think it odd, was aware of its being veryimpertinent, but he took the liberty of a relation; and concluded bywishing, with a laugh, that he might be really one very soon. Even LadySusan seemed a little disconcerted by this forwardness; in her heart Iam persuaded she sincerely wished him gone. But something must be donefor this poor girl, if her feelings are such as both I and her unclebelieve them to be. She must not be sacrificed to policy or ambition,and she must not be left to suffer from the dread of it. The girl whoseheart can distinguish Reginald De Courcy, deserves, however he mayslight her, a better fate than to be Sir James Martin's wife. As soonas I can get her alone, I will discover the real truth; but she seems towish to avoid me. I hope this does not proceed from anything wrong, andthat I shall not find out I have thought too well of her. Herbehaviour to Sir James certainly speaks the greatest consciousness andembarrassment, but I see nothing in it more like encouragement. Adieu,my dear mother.Yours, &c.,C. VERNON.XXIMISS VERNON TO MR DE COURCYSir,--I hope you will excuse this liberty; I am forced upon it by thegreatest distress, or I should be ashamed to trouble you. I am verymiserable about Sir James Martin, and have no other way in the world ofhelping myself but by writing to you, for I am forbidden even speakingto my uncle and aunt on the subject; and this being the case, I amafraid my applying to you will appear no better than equivocation, andas if I attended to the letter and not the spirit of mamma's commands.But if you do not take my part and persuade her to break it off, I shallbe half distracted, for I cannot bear him. No human being but YOU couldhave any chance of prevailing with her. If you will, therefore, have theunspeakably great kindness of taking my part with her, and persuadingher to send Sir James away, I shall be more obliged to you than it ispossible for me to express. I always disliked him from the first: it isnot a sudden fancy, I assure you, sir; I always thought him silly andimpertinent and disagreeable, and now he is grown worse than ever. Iwould rather work for my bread than marry him. I do not know howto apologize enough for this letter; I know it is taking so great aliberty. I am aware how dreadfully angry it will make mamma, but Iremember the risk.I am, Sir, your most humble servant,F. S. V.XXIILADY SUSAN TO MRS. JOHNSONChurchhill.This is insufferable! My dearest friend, I was never so enraged before,and must relieve myself by writing to you, who I know will enter intoall my feelings. Who should come on Tuesday but Sir James Martin! Guessmy astonishment, and vexation--for, as you well know, I never wished himto be seen at Churchhill. What a pity that you should not have knownhis intentions! Not content with coming, he actually invited himself toremain here a few days. I could have poisoned him! I made the best ofit, however, and told my story with great success to Mrs. Vernon, who,whatever might be her real sentiments, said nothing in opposition tomine. I made a point also of Frederica's behaving civilly to Sir James,and gave her to understand that I was absolutely determined on hermarrying him. She said something of her misery, but that was all. I havefor some time been more particularly resolved on the match from seeingthe rapid increase of her affection for Reginald, and from not feelingsecure that a knowledge of such affection might not in the end awakena return. Contemptible as a regard founded only on compassion must makethem both in my eyes, I felt by no means assured that such might not bethe consequence. It is true that Reginald had not in any degree growncool towards me; but yet he has lately mentioned Frederica spontaneouslyand unnecessarily, and once said something in praise of her person.HE was all astonishment at the appearance of my visitor, and at firstobserved Sir James with an attention which I was pleased to see notunmixed with jealousy; but unluckily it was impossible for me reallyto torment him, as Sir James, though extremely gallant to me, verysoon made the whole party understand that his heart was devoted to mydaughter. I had no great difficulty in convincing De Courcy, when wewere alone, that I was perfectly justified, all things considered,in desiring the match; and the whole business seemed most comfortablyarranged. They could none of them help perceiving that Sir James was noSolomon; but I had positively forbidden Frederica complaining to CharlesVernon or his wife, and they had therefore no pretence for interference;though my impertinent sister, I believe, wanted only opportunity fordoing so. Everything, however, was going on calmly and quietly; and,though I counted the hours of Sir James's stay, my mind was entirelysatisfied with the posture of affairs. Guess, then, what I must feel atthe sudden disturbance of all my schemes; and that, too, from a quarterwhere I had least reason to expect it. Reginald came this morning intomy dressing-room with a very unusual solemnity of countenance, and aftersome preface informed me in so many words that he wished to reason withme on the impropriety and unkindness of allowing Sir James Martin toaddress my daughter contrary to her inclinations. I was all amazement.When I found that he was not to be laughed out of his design, I calmlybegged an explanation, and desired to know by what he was impelled, andby whom commissioned, to reprimand me. He then told me, mixing inhis speech a few insolent compliments and ill-timed expressions oftenderness, to which I listened with perfect indifference, that mydaughter had acquainted him with some circumstances concerning herself,Sir James, and me which had given him great uneasiness. In short, Ifound that she had in the first place actually written to him to requesthis interference, and that, on receiving her letter, he had conversedwith her on the subject of it, in order to understand the particulars,and to assure himself of her real wishes. I have not a doubt but thatthe girl took this opportunity of making downright love to him. I amconvinced of it by the manner in which he spoke of her. Much good maysuch love do him! I shall ever despise the man who can be gratified bythe passion which he never wished to inspire, nor solicited the avowalof. I shall always detest them both. He can have no true regard forme, or he would not have listened to her; and SHE, with her littlerebellious heart and indelicate feelings, to throw herself into theprotection of a young man with whom she has scarcely ever exchangedtwo words before! I am equally confounded at HER impudence and HIScredulity. How dared he believe what she told him in my disfavour! Oughthe not to have felt assured that I must have unanswerable motives forall that I had done? Where was his reliance on my sense and goodnessthen? Where the resentment which true love would have dictated againstthe person defaming me--that person, too, a chit, a child, withouttalent or education, whom he had been always taught to despise? Iwas calm for some time; but the greatest degree of forbearance may beovercome, and I hope I was afterwards sufficiently keen. He endeavoured,long endeavoured, to soften my resentment; but that woman is afool indeed who, while insulted by accusation, can be worked on bycompliments. At length he left me, as deeply provoked as myself; andhe showed his anger more. I was quite cool, but he gave way to the mostviolent indignation; I may therefore expect it will the sooner subside,and perhaps his may be vanished for ever, while mine will be found stillfresh and implacable. He is now shut up in his apartment, whither Iheard him go on leaving mine. How unpleasant, one would think, must behis reflections! but some people's feelings are incomprehensible. I havenot yet tranquillised myself enough to see Frederica. SHE shall not soonforget the occurrences of this day; she shall find that she has pouredforth her tender tale of love in vain, and exposed herself for everto the contempt of the whole world, and the severest resentment of herinjured mother.Your affectionateS. VERNON.XXIIIMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhill.Let me congratulate you, my dearest Mother! The affair which has givenus so much anxiety is drawing to a happy conclusion. Our prospect ismost delightful, and since matters have now taken so favourable a turn,I am quite sorry that I ever imparted my apprehensions to you; for thepleasure of learning that the danger is over is perhaps dearly purchasedby all that you have previously suffered. I am so much agitated bydelight that I can scarcely hold a pen; but am determined to send youa few short lines by James, that you may have some explanation of whatmust so greatly astonish you, as that Reginald should be returning toParklands. I was sitting about half an hour ago with Sir James inthe breakfast parlour, when my brother called me out of the room. Iinstantly saw that something was the matter; his complexion was raised,and he spoke with great emotion; you know his eager manner, my dearmother, when his mind is interested. "Catherine," said he, "I am goinghome to-day; I am sorry to leave you, but I must go: it is a great whilesince I have seen my father and mother. I am going to send James forwardwith my hunters immediately; if you have any letter, therefore, he cantake it. I shall not be at home myself till Wednesday or Thursday, as Ishall go through London, where I have business; but before I leave you,"he continued, speaking in a lower tone, and with still greater energy,"I must warn you of one thing--do not let Frederica Vernon be madeunhappy by that Martin. He wants to marry her; her mother promotes thematch, but she cannot endure the idea of it. Be assured that I speakfrom the fullest conviction of the truth of what I say; I know thatFrederica is made wretched by Sir James's continuing here. She is asweet girl, and deserves a better fate. Send him away immediately; he isonly a fool: but what her mother can mean, Heaven only knows! Good bye,"he added, shaking my hand with earnestness; "I do not know when you willsee me again; but remember what I tell you of Frederica; you MUST makeit your business to see justice done her. She is an amiable girl, andhas a very superior mind to what we have given her credit for." He thenleft me, and ran upstairs. I would not try to stop him, for I know whathis feelings must be. The nature of mine, as I listened to him, I neednot attempt to describe; for a minute or two I remained in the samespot, overpowered by wonder of a most agreeable sort indeed; yet itrequired some consideration to be tranquilly happy. In about ten minutesafter my return to the parlour Lady Susan entered the room. I concluded,of course, that she and Reginald had been quarrelling; and looked withanxious curiosity for a confirmation of my belief in her face. Mistressof deceit, however, she appeared perfectly unconcerned, and afterchatting on indifferent subjects for a short time, said to me, "I findfrom Wilson that we are going to lose Mr. De Courcy--is it true thathe leaves Churchhill this morning?" I replied that it was. "He toldus nothing of all this last night," said she, laughing, "or even thismorning at breakfast; but perhaps he did not know it himself. Young menare often hasty in their resolutions, and not more sudden in formingthan unsteady in keeping them. I should not be surprised if he were tochange his mind at last, and not go." She soon afterwards left the room.I trust, however, my dear mother, that we have no reason to fear analteration of his present plan; things have gone too far. They must havequarrelled, and about Frederica, too. Her calmness astonishes me. Whatdelight will be yours in seeing him again; in seeing him still worthyyour esteem, still capable of forming your happiness! When I nextwrite I shall be able to tell you that Sir James is gone, Lady Susanvanquished, and Frederica at peace. We have much to do, but it shallbe done. I am all impatience to hear how this astonishing change waseffected. I finish as I began, with the warmest congratulations.Yours ever, &c.,CATH. VERNON.XXIVFROM THE SAME TO THE SAMEChurchhill.Little did I imagine, my dear Mother, when I sent off my last letter,that the delightful perturbation of spirits I was then in would undergoso speedy, so melancholy a reverse. I never can sufficiently regret thatI wrote to you at all. Yet who could have foreseen what has happened?My dear mother, every hope which made me so happy only two hours ago hasvanished. The quarrel between Lady Susan and Reginald is made up, and weare all as we were before. One point only is gained. Sir James Martin isdismissed. What are we now to look forward to? I am indeed disappointed;Reginald was all but gone, his horse was ordered and all but broughtto the door; who would not have felt safe? For half an hour I was inmomentary expectation of his departure. After I had sent off my letterto you, I went to Mr. Vernon, and sat with him in his room talking overthe whole matter, and then determined to look for Frederica, whom I hadnot seen since breakfast. I met her on the stairs, and saw that she wascrying. "My dear aunt," said she, "he is going--Mr. De Courcy is going,and it is all my fault. I am afraid you will be very angry with me, butindeed I had no idea it would end so." "My love," I replied, "do notthink it necessary to apologize to me on that account. I shall feelmyself under an obligation to anyone who is the means of sending mybrother home, because," recollecting myself, "I know my father wantsvery much to see him. But what is it you have done to occasion allthis?" She blushed deeply as she answered: "I was so unhappy about SirJames that I could not help--I have done something very wrong, I know;but you have not an idea of the misery I have been in: and mamma hadordered me never to speak to you or my uncle about it, and--" "Youtherefore spoke to my brother to engage his interference," said I, tosave her the explanation. "No, but I wrote to him--I did indeed, I gotup this morning before it was light, and was two hours about it; andwhen my letter was done I thought I never should have courage to giveit. After breakfast however, as I was going to my room, I met him in thepassage, and then, as I knew that everything must depend on that moment,I forced myself to give it. He was so good as to take it immediately. Idared not look at him, and ran away directly. I was in such a fright Icould hardly breathe. My dear aunt, you do not know how miserable Ihave been." "Frederica" said I, "you ought to have told me all yourdistresses. You would have found in me a friend always ready to assistyou. Do you think that your uncle or I should not have espoused yourcause as warmly as my brother?" "Indeed, I did not doubt your kindness,"said she, colouring again, "but I thought Mr. De Courcy could doanything with my mother; but I was mistaken: they have had a dreadfulquarrel about it, and he is going away. Mamma will never forgive me,and I shall be worse off than ever." "No, you shall not," I replied;"in such a point as this your mother's prohibition ought not to haveprevented your speaking to me on the subject. She has no right tomake you unhappy, and she shall NOT do it. Your applying, however, toReginald can be productive only of good to all parties. I believe itis best as it is. Depend upon it that you shall not be made unhappy anylonger." At that moment how great was my astonishment at seeing Reginaldcome out of Lady Susan's dressing-room. My heart misgave me instantly.His confusion at seeing me was very evident. Frederica immediatelydisappeared. "Are you going?" I said; "you will find Mr. Vernon in hisown room." "No, Catherine," he replied, "I am not going. Will you letme speak to you a moment?" We went into my room. "I find," he continued,his confusion increasing as he spoke, "that I have been acting with myusual foolish impetuosity. I have entirely misunderstood Lady Susan, andwas on the point of leaving the house under a false impression ofher conduct. There has been some very great mistake; we have been allmistaken, I fancy. Frederica does not know her mother. Lady Susan meansnothing but her good, but she will not make a friend of her. Lady Susandoes not always know, therefore, what will make her daughter happy.Besides, I could have no right to interfere. Miss Vernon was mistaken inapplying to me. In short, Catherine, everything has gone wrong, but itis now all happily settled. Lady Susan, I believe, wishes to speak toyou about it, if you are at leisure." "Certainly," I replied, deeplysighing at the recital of so lame a story. I made no comments, however,for words would have been vain.Reginald was glad to get away, and I went to Lady Susan, curious,indeed, to hear her account of it. "Did I not tell you," said she witha smile, "that your brother would not leave us after all?" "You did,indeed," replied I very gravely; "but I flattered myself you would bemistaken." "I should not have hazarded such an opinion," returned she,"if it had not at that moment occurred to me that his resolution ofgoing might be occasioned by a conversation in which we had been thismorning engaged, and which had ended very much to his dissatisfaction,from our not rightly understanding each other's meaning. This ideastruck me at the moment, and I instantly determined that an accidentaldispute, in which I might probably be as much to blame as himself,should not deprive you of your brother. If you remember, I left the roomalmost immediately. I was resolved to lose no time in clearing up thosemistakes as far as I could. The case was this--Frederica had set herselfviolently against marrying Sir James." "And can your ladyship wonderthat she should?" cried I with some warmth; "Frederica has an excellentunderstanding, and Sir James has none." "I am at least very far fromregretting it, my dear sister," said she; "on the contrary, I amgrateful for so favourable a sign of my daughter's sense. Sir James iscertainly below par (his boyish manners make him appear worse); and hadFrederica possessed the penetration and the abilities which I could havewished in my daughter, or had I even known her to possess as much as shedoes, I should not have been anxious for the match." "It is odd thatyou should alone be ignorant of your daughter's sense!" "Frederica neverdoes justice to herself; her manners are shy and childish, and besidesshe is afraid of me. During her poor father's life she was a spoiltchild; the severity which it has since been necessary for me to showhas alienated her affection; neither has she any of that brilliancyof intellect, that genius or vigour of mind which will force itselfforward." "Say rather that she has been unfortunate in her education!""Heaven knows, my dearest Mrs. Vernon, how fully I am aware of that; butI would wish to forget every circumstance that might throw blame on thememory of one whose name is sacred with me." Here she pretended to cry;I was out of patience with her. "But what," said I, "was your ladyshipgoing to tell me about your disagreement with my brother?" "Itoriginated in an action of my daughter's, which equally marks her wantof judgment and the unfortunate dread of me I have been mentioning--shewrote to Mr. De Courcy." "I know she did; you had forbidden her speakingto Mr. Vernon or to me on the cause of her distress; what could she do,therefore, but apply to my brother?" "Good God!" she exclaimed, "what anopinion you must have of me! Can you possibly suppose that I wasaware of her unhappiness! that it was my object to make my own childmiserable, and that I had forbidden her speaking to you on the subjectfrom a fear of your interrupting the diabolical scheme? Do you thinkme destitute of every honest, every natural feeling? Am I capable ofconsigning HER to everlasting misery whose welfare it is my firstearthly duty to promote? The idea is horrible!" "What, then, was yourintention when you insisted on her silence?" "Of what use, my dearsister, could be any application to you, however the affair might stand?Why should I subject you to entreaties which I refused to attend tomyself? Neither for your sake nor for hers, nor for my own, could sucha thing be desirable. When my own resolution was taken I could notwish for the interference, however friendly, of another person. I wasmistaken, it is true, but I believed myself right." "But what was thismistake to which your ladyship so often alludes! from whence arose soastonishing a misconception of your daughter's feelings! Did you notknow that she disliked Sir James?" "I knew that he was not absolutelythe man she would have chosen, but I was persuaded that her objectionsto him did not arise from any perception of his deficiency. You mustnot question me, however, my dear sister, too minutely on this point,"continued she, taking me affectionately by the hand; "I honestly ownthat there is something to conceal. Frederica makes me very unhappy! Herapplying to Mr. De Courcy hurt me particularly." "What is it you meanto infer," said I, "by this appearance of mystery? If you think yourdaughter at all attached to Reginald, her objecting to Sir James couldnot less deserve to be attended to than if the cause of her objectinghad been a consciousness of his folly; and why should your ladyship,at any rate, quarrel with my brother for an interference which, you mustknow, it is not in his nature to refuse when urged in such a manner?""His disposition, you know, is warm, and he came to expostulate withme; his compassion all alive for this ill-used girl, this heroine indistress! We misunderstood each other: he believed me more to blame thanI really was; I considered his interference less excusable than Inow find it. I have a real regard for him, and was beyond expressionmortified to find it, as I thought, so ill bestowed. We were both warm,and of course both to blame. His resolution of leaving Churchhill isconsistent with his general eagerness. When I understood his intention,however, and at the same time began to think that we had been perhapsequally mistaken in each other's meaning, I resolved to have anexplanation before it was too late. For any member of your family I mustalways feel a degree of affection, and I own it would have sensibly hurtme if my acquaintance with Mr. De Courcy had ended so gloomily. I havenow only to say further, that as I am convinced of Frederica's havinga reasonable dislike to Sir James, I shall instantly inform him that hemust give up all hope of her. I reproach myself for having, even thoughinnocently, made her unhappy on that score. She shall have all theretribution in my power to make; if she value her own happiness as muchas I do, if she judge wisely, and command herself as she ought, she maynow be easy. Excuse me, my dearest sister, for thus trespassing on yourtime, but I owe it to my own character; and after this explanation Itrust I am in no danger of sinking in your opinion." I could havesaid, "Not much, indeed!" but I left her almost in silence. It wasthe greatest stretch of forbearance I could practise. I could not havestopped myself had I begun. Her assurance! her deceit! but I will notallow myself to dwell on them; they will strike you sufficiently. Myheart sickens within me. As soon as I was tolerably composed I returnedto the parlour. Sir James's carriage was at the door, and he, merryas usual, soon afterwards took his leave. How easily does her ladyshipencourage or dismiss a lover! In spite of this release, Frederica stilllooks unhappy: still fearful, perhaps, of her mother's anger; and thoughdreading my brother's departure, jealous, it may be, of his staying. Isee how closely she observes him and Lady Susan, poor girl! I have nowno hope for her. There is not a chance of her affection being returned.He thinks very differently of her from what he used to do; he does hersome justice, but his reconciliation with her mother precludes everydearer hope. Prepare, my dear mother, for the worst! The probability oftheir marrying is surely heightened! He is more securely hers than ever.When that wretched event takes place, Frederica must belong wholly tous. I am thankful that my last letter will precede this by so little, asevery moment that you can be saved from feeling a joy which leads onlyto disappointment is of consequence.Yours ever, &c.,CATHERINE VERNON.XXVLADY SUSAN TO MRS. JOHNSONChurchhill.I call on you, dear Alicia, for congratulations: I am my own self, gayand triumphant! When I wrote to you the other day I was, in truth, inhigh irritation, and with ample cause. Nay, I know not whether I oughtto be quite tranquil now, for I have had more trouble in restoringpeace than I ever intended to submit to--a spirit, too, resulting froma fancied sense of superior integrity, which is peculiarly insolent! Ishall not easily forgive him, I assure you. He was actually on the pointof leaving Churchhill! I had scarcely concluded my last, when Wilsonbrought me word of it. I found, therefore, that something must be done;for I did not choose to leave my character at the mercy of a man whosepassions are so violent and so revengeful. It would have been triflingwith my reputation to allow of his departing with such an impression inmy disfavour; in this light, condescension was necessary. I sentWilson to say that I desired to speak with him before he went; he cameimmediately. The angry emotions which had marked every feature when welast parted were partially subdued. He seemed astonished at the summons,and looked as if half wishing and half fearing to be softened by what Imight say. If my countenance expressed what I aimed at, it was composedand dignified; and yet, with a degree of pensiveness which mightconvince him that I was not quite happy. "I beg your pardon, sir, forthe liberty I have taken in sending for you," said I; "but as I havejust learnt your intention of leaving this place to-day, I feel it myduty to entreat that you will not on my account shorten your visit hereeven an hour. I am perfectly aware that after what has passed betweenus it would ill suit the feelings of either to remain longer in the samehouse: so very great, so total a change from the intimacy of friendshipmust render any future intercourse the severest punishment; and yourresolution of quitting Churchhill is undoubtedly in unison with oursituation, and with those lively feelings which I know you to possess.But, at the same time, it is not for me to suffer such a sacrifice as itmust be to leave relations to whom you are so much attached, and are sodear. My remaining here cannot give that pleasure to Mr. and Mrs. Vernonwhich your society must; and my visit has already perhaps been too long.My removal, therefore, which must, at any rate, take place soon, may,with perfect convenience, be hastened; and I make it my particularrequest that I may not in any way be instrumental in separating afamily so affectionately attached to each other. Where I go is ofno consequence to anyone; of very little to myself; but you are ofimportance to all your connections." Here I concluded, and I hope youwill be satisfied with my speech. Its effect on Reginald justifies someportion of vanity, for it was no less favourable than instantaneous. Oh,how delightful it was to watch the variations of his countenance while Ispoke! to see the struggle between returning tenderness and the remainsof displeasure. There is something agreeable in feelings so easilyworked on; not that I envy him their possession, nor would, for theworld, have such myself; but they are very convenient when one wishesto influence the passions of another. And yet this Reginald, whom avery few words from me softened at once into the utmost submission, andrendered more tractable, more attached, more devoted than ever, wouldhave left me in the first angry swelling of his proud heart withoutdeigning to seek an explanation. Humbled as he now is, I cannot forgivehim such an instance of pride, and am doubtful whether I ought not topunish him by dismissing him at once after this reconciliation, orby marrying and teazing him for ever. But these measures are each tooviolent to be adopted without some deliberation; at present my thoughtsare fluctuating between various schemes. I have many things to compass:I must punish Frederica, and pretty severely too, for her application toReginald; I must punish him for receiving it so favourably, and for therest of his conduct. I must torment my sister-in-law for the insolenttriumph of her look and manner since Sir James has been dismissed; for,in reconciling Reginald to me, I was not able to save that ill-fatedyoung man; and I must make myself amends for the humiliation to whichI have stooped within these few days. To effect all this I have variousplans. I have also an idea of being soon in town; and whatever may bemy determination as to the rest, I shall probably put THAT projectin execution; for London will be always the fairest field of action,however my views may be directed; and at any rate I shall there berewarded by your society, and a little dissipation, for a ten weeks'penance at Churchhill. I believe I owe it to my character to completethe match between my daughter and Sir James after having so longintended it. Let me know your opinion on this point. Flexibility ofmind, a disposition easily biassed by others, is an attribute which youknow I am not very desirous of obtaining; nor has Frederica any claimto the indulgence of her notions at the expense of her mother'sinclinations. Her idle love for Reginald, too! It is surely my duty todiscourage such romantic nonsense. All things considered, therefore, itseems incumbent on me to take her to town and marry her immediately toSir James. When my own will is effected contrary to his, I shall havesome credit in being on good terms with Reginald, which at present, infact, I have not; for though he is still in my power, I have given upthe very article by which our quarrel was produced, and at best thehonour of victory is doubtful. Send me your opinion on all thesematters, my dear Alicia, and let me know whether you can get lodgings tosuit me within a short distance of you.Your most attachedS. VERNON.XXVIMRS. JOHNSON TO LADY SUSANEdward Street.I am gratified by your reference, and this is my advice: that you cometo town yourself, without loss of time, but that you leave Fredericabehind. It would surely be much more to the purpose to get yourself wellestablished by marrying Mr. De Courcy, than to irritate him and the restof his family by making her marry Sir James. You should think more ofyourself and less of your daughter. She is not of a disposition to doyou credit in the world, and seems precisely in her proper place atChurchhill, with the Vernons. But you are fitted for society, and itis shameful to have you exiled from it. Leave Frederica, therefore,to punish herself for the plague she has given you, by indulging thatromantic tender-heartedness which will always ensure her misery enough,and come to London as soon as you can. I have another reason for urgingthis: Mainwaring came to town last week, and has contrived, in spiteof Mr. Johnson, to make opportunities of seeing me. He is absolutelymiserable about you, and jealous to such a degree of De Courcy that itwould be highly unadvisable for them to meet at present. And yet, if youdo not allow him to see you here, I cannot answer for his not committingsome great imprudence--such as going to Churchhill, for instance, whichwould be dreadful! Besides, if you take my advice, and resolve to marryDe Courcy, it will be indispensably necessary to you to get Mainwaringout of the way; and you only can have influence enough to send him backto his wife. I have still another motive for your coming: Mr. Johnsonleaves London next Tuesday; he is going for his health to Bath, where,if the waters are favourable to his constitution and my wishes, he willbe laid up with the gout many weeks. During his absence we shall be ableto chuse our own society, and to have true enjoyment. I would ask you toEdward Street, but that once he forced from me a kind of promise neverto invite you to my house; nothing but my being in the utmost distressfor money should have extorted it from me. I can get you, however,a nice drawing-room apartment in Upper Seymour Street, and we may bealways together there or here; for I consider my promise to Mr. Johnsonas comprehending only (at least in his absence) your not sleeping in thehouse. Poor Mainwaring gives me such histories of his wife's jealousy.Silly woman to expect constancy from so charming a man! but she alwayswas silly--intolerably so in marrying him at all, she the heiress of alarge fortune and he without a shilling: one title, I know, she mighthave had, besides baronets. Her folly in forming the connection was sogreat that, though Mr. Johnson was her guardian, and I do not in generalshare HIS feelings, I never can forgive her.Adieu. Yours ever,ALICIA.XXVIIMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhill.This letter, my dear Mother, will be brought you by Reginald. His longvisit is about to be concluded at last, but I fear the separation takesplace too late to do us any good. She is going to London to see herparticular friend, Mrs. Johnson. It was at first her intention thatFrederica should accompany her, for the benefit of masters, but weoverruled her there. Frederica was wretched in the idea of going, andI could not bear to have her at the mercy of her mother; not all themasters in London could compensate for the ruin of her comfort. Ishould have feared, too, for her health, and for everything but herprinciples--there I believe she is not to be injured by her mother, orher mother's friends; but with those friends she must have mixed (a verybad set, I doubt not), or have been left in total solitude, and I canhardly tell which would have been worse for her. If she is with hermother, moreover, she must, alas! in all probability be with Reginald,and that would be the greatest evil of all. Here we shall in time be inpeace, and our regular employments, our books and conversations, withexercise, the children, and every domestic pleasure in my power toprocure her, will, I trust, gradually overcome this youthful attachment.I should not have a doubt of it were she slighted for any other woman inthe world than her own mother. How long Lady Susan will be in town, orwhether she returns here again, I know not. I could not be cordial in myinvitation, but if she chuses to come no want of cordiality on my partwill keep her away. I could not help asking Reginald if he intendedbeing in London this winter, as soon as I found her ladyship'ssteps would be bent thither; and though he professed himself quiteundetermined, there was something in his look and voice as he spokewhich contradicted his words. I have done with lamentation; I look uponthe event as so far decided that I resign myself to it in despair. If heleaves you soon for London everything will be concluded.Your affectionate, &c.,C. VERNON.XXVIIIMRS. JOHNSON TO LADY SUSANEdward Street.My dearest Friend,--I write in the greatest distress; the mostunfortunate event has just taken place. Mr. Johnson has hit on the mosteffectual manner of plaguing us all. He had heard, I imagine, by somemeans or other, that you were soon to be in London, and immediatelycontrived to have such an attack of the gout as must at least delay hisjourney to Bath, if not wholly prevent it. I am persuaded the gout isbrought on or kept off at pleasure; it was the same when I wanted tojoin the Hamiltons to the Lakes; and three years ago, when I had a fancyfor Bath, nothing could induce him to have a gouty symptom.I am pleased to find that my letter had so much effect on you, and thatDe Courcy is certainly your own. Let me hear from you as soon as youarrive, and in particular tell me what you mean to do with Mainwaring.It is impossible to say when I shall be able to come to you; myconfinement must be great. It is such an abominable trick to be ill hereinstead of at Bath that I can scarcely command myself at all. At Bathhis old aunts would have nursed him, but here it all falls upon me; andhe bears pain with such patience that I have not the common excuse forlosing my temper.Yours ever,ALICIA.XXIXLADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS. JOHNSONUpper Seymour Street.My dear Alicia,--There needed not this last fit of the gout to makeme detest Mr. Johnson, but now the extent of my aversion is not tobe estimated. To have you confined as nurse in his apartment! My dearAlicia, of what a mistake were you guilty in marrying a man of his age!just old enough to be formal, ungovernable, and to have the gout; tooold to be agreeable, too young to die. I arrived last night about five,had scarcely swallowed my dinner when Mainwaring made his appearance.I will not dissemble what real pleasure his sight afforded me, nor howstrongly I felt the contrast between his person and manners and those ofReginald, to the infinite disadvantage of the latter. For an hour or twoI was even staggered in my resolution of marrying him, and though thiswas too idle and nonsensical an idea to remain long on my mind, I do notfeel very eager for the conclusion of my marriage, nor look forward withmuch impatience to the time when Reginald, according to our agreement,is to be in town. I shall probably put off his arrival under somepretence or other. He must not come till Mainwaring is gone. I am stilldoubtful at times as to marrying; if the old man would die I might nothesitate, but a state of dependance on the caprice of Sir Reginald willnot suit the freedom of my spirit; and if I resolve to wait for thatevent, I shall have excuse enough at present in having been scarcely tenmonths a widow. I have not given Mainwaring any hint of my intention, orallowed him to consider my acquaintance with Reginald as more than thecommonest flirtation, and he is tolerably appeased. Adieu, till we meet;I am enchanted with my lodgings.Yours ever,S. VERNON.XXXLADY SUSAN VERNON TO MR. DE COURCYUpper Seymour Street.I have received your letter, and though I do not attempt to conceal thatI am gratified by your impatience for the hour of meeting, I yetfeel myself under the necessity of delaying that hour beyond the timeoriginally fixed. Do not think me unkind for such an exercise of mypower, nor accuse me of instability without first hearing my reasons.In the course of my journey from Churchhill I had ample leisure forreflection on the present state of our affairs, and every review hasserved to convince me that they require a delicacy and cautiousness ofconduct to which we have hitherto been too little attentive. We havebeen hurried on by our feelings to a degree of precipitation which illaccords with the claims of our friends or the opinion of the world. Wehave been unguarded in forming this hasty engagement, but we must notcomplete the imprudence by ratifying it while there is so much reasonto fear the connection would be opposed by those friends on whom youdepend. It is not for us to blame any expectations on your father's sideof your marrying to advantage; where possessions are so extensive asthose of your family, the wish of increasing them, if not strictlyreasonable, is too common to excite surprize or resentment. He has aright to require; a woman of fortune in his daughter-in-law, and I amsometimes quarrelling with myself for suffering you to form a connectionso imprudent; but the influence of reason is often acknowledged too lateby those who feel like me. I have now been but a few months a widow,and, however little indebted to my husband's memory for any happinessderived from him during a union of some years, I cannot forget that theindelicacy of so early a second marriage must subject me to the censureof the world, and incur, what would be still more insupportable, thedispleasure of Mr. Vernon. I might perhaps harden myself in time againstthe injustice of general reproach, but the loss of HIS valued esteemI am, as you well know, ill-fitted to endure; and when to this may beadded the consciousness of having injured you with your family, how am Ito support myself? With feelings so poignant as mine, the conviction ofhaving divided the son from his parents would make me, even with you,the most miserable of beings. It will surely, therefore, be advisable todelay our union--to delay it till appearances are more promising--tillaffairs have taken a more favourable turn. To assist us in such aresolution I feel that absence will be necessary. We must not meet.Cruel as this sentence may appear, the necessity of pronouncing it,which can alone reconcile it to myself, will be evident to you when youhave considered our situation in the light in which I have found myselfimperiously obliged to place it. You may be--you must be--well assuredthat nothing but the strongest conviction of duty could induce meto wound my own feelings by urging a lengthened separation, and ofinsensibility to yours you will hardly suspect me. Again, therefore,I say that we ought not, we must not, yet meet. By a removal for somemonths from each other we shall tranquillise the sisterly fears of Mrs.Vernon, who, accustomed herself to the enjoyment of riches, considersfortune as necessary everywhere, and whose sensibilities are not of anature to comprehend ours. Let me hear from you soon--very soon. Tell methat you submit to my arguments, and do not reproach me for using such.I cannot bear reproaches: my spirits are not so high as to need beingrepressed. I must endeavour to seek amusement, and fortunately manyof my friends are in town; amongst them the Mainwarings; you know howsincerely I regard both husband and wife.I am, very faithfully yours,S. VERNONXXXILADY SUSAN TO MRS. JOHNSONUpper Seymour Street.My dear Friend,--That tormenting creature, Reginald, is here. My letter,which was intended to keep him longer in the country, has hastened himto town. Much as I wish him away, however, I cannot help being pleasedwith such a proof of attachment. He is devoted to me, heart and soul.He will carry this note himself, which is to serve as an introduction toyou, with whom he longs to be acquainted. Allow him to spend the eveningwith you, that I may be in no danger of his returning here. I have toldhim that I am not quite well, and must be alone; and should he callagain there might be confusion, for it is impossible to be sure ofservants. Keep him, therefore, I entreat you, in Edward Street. You willnot find him a heavy companion, and I allow you to flirt with him asmuch as you like. At the same time, do not forget my real interest; sayall that you can to convince him that I shall be quite wretched if heremains here; you know my reasons--propriety, and so forth. I wouldurge them more myself, but that I am impatient to be rid of him, asMainwaring comes within half an hour. Adieu!S VERNONXXXIIMRS. JOHNSON TO LADY SUSANEdward Street.My dear Creature,--I am in agonies, and know not what to do. Mr. DeCourcy arrived just when he should not. Mrs. Mainwaring had that instantentered the house, and forced herself into her guardian's presence,though I did not know a syllable of it till afterwards, for I was outwhen both she and Reginald came, or I should have sent him away at allevents; but she was shut up with Mr. Johnson, while he waited in thedrawing-room for me. She arrived yesterday in pursuit of her husband,but perhaps you know this already from himself. She came to this houseto entreat my husband's interference, and before I could be aware ofit, everything that you could wish to be concealed was known to him, andunluckily she had wormed out of Mainwaring's servant that he had visitedyou every day since your being in town, and had just watched him to yourdoor herself! What could I do! Facts are such horrid things! All is bythis time known to De Courcy, who is now alone with Mr. Johnson. Do notaccuse me; indeed, it was impossible to prevent it. Mr. Johnson has forsome time suspected De Courcy of intending to marry you, and wouldspeak with him alone as soon as he knew him to be in the house. Thatdetestable Mrs. Mainwaring, who, for your comfort, has fretted herselfthinner and uglier than ever, is still here, and they have been allcloseted together. What can be done? At any rate, I hope he will plaguehis wife more than ever. With anxious wishes, Yours faithfully,ALICIA.XXXIIILADY SUSAN TO MRS. JOHNSONUpper Seymour Street.This eclaircissement is rather provoking. How unlucky that you shouldhave been from home! I thought myself sure of you at seven! I amundismayed however. Do not torment yourself with fears on my account;depend on it, I can make my story good with Reginald. Mainwaring is justgone; he brought me the news of his wife's arrival. Silly woman, whatdoes she expect by such manoeuvres? Yet I wish she had stayed quietlyat Langford. Reginald will be a little enraged at first, but byto-morrow's dinner, everything will be well again.Adieu!S. V.XXXIVMR. DE COURCY TO LADY SUSAN--HotelI write only to bid you farewell, the spell is removed; I see you asyou are. Since we parted yesterday, I have received from indisputableauthority such a history of you as must bring the most mortifyingconviction of the imposition I have been under, and the absolutenecessity of an immediate and eternal separation from you. Youcannot doubt to what I allude. Langford! Langford! that word will besufficient. I received my information in Mr. Johnson's house, from Mrs.Mainwaring herself. You know how I have loved you; you can intimatelyjudge of my present feelings, but I am not so weak as to find indulgencein describing them to a woman who will glory in having excited theiranguish, but whose affection they have never been able to gain.R. DE COURCY.XXXVLADY SUSAN TO MR. DE COURCYUpper Seymour Street.I will not attempt to describe my astonishment in reading the note thismoment received from you. I am bewildered in my endeavours to formsome rational conjecture of what Mrs. Mainwaring can have told youto occasion so extraordinary a change in your sentiments. Have I notexplained everything to you with respect to myself which could bear adoubtful meaning, and which the ill-nature of the world had interpretedto my discredit? What can you now have heard to stagger your esteem forme? Have I ever had a concealment from you? Reginald, you agitateme beyond expression, I cannot suppose that the old story of Mrs.Mainwaring's jealousy can be revived again, or at least be LISTENED toagain. Come to me immediately, and explain what is at present absolutelyincomprehensible. Believe me the single word of Langford is not of suchpotent intelligence as to supersede the necessity of more. If we ARE topart, it will at least be handsome to take your personal leave--butI have little heart to jest; in truth, I am serious enough; for to besunk, though but for an hour, in your esteem is a humiliation to which Iknow not how to submit. I shall count every minute till your arrival.S. V.XXXVIMR. DE COURCY TO LADY SUSAN----Hotel.Why would you write to me? Why do you require particulars? But, sinceit must be so, I am obliged to declare that all the accounts of yourmisconduct during the life, and since the death of Mr. Vernon, which hadreached me, in common with the world in general, and gained my entirebelief before I saw you, but which you, by the exertion of yourperverted abilities, had made me resolved to disallow, have beenunanswerably proved to me; nay more, I am assured that a connection,of which I had never before entertained a thought, has for some timeexisted, and still continues to exist, between you and the man whosefamily you robbed of its peace in return for the hospitality with whichyou were received into it; that you have corresponded with him eversince your leaving Langford; not with his wife, but with him, and thathe now visits you every day. Can you, dare you deny it? and all this atthe time when I was an encouraged, an accepted lover! From what have Inot escaped! I have only to be grateful. Far from me be all complaint,every sigh of regret. My own folly had endangered me, my preservation Iowe to the kindness, the integrity of another; but the unfortunate Mrs.Mainwaring, whose agonies while she related the past seemed to threatenher reason, how is SHE to be consoled! After such a discovery as this,you will scarcely affect further wonder at my meaning in bidding youadieu. My understanding is at length restored, and teaches no less toabhor the artifices which had subdued me than to despise myself for theweakness on which their strength was founded.R. DE COURCY.XXXVIILADY SUSAN TO MR. DE COURCYUpper Seymour Street.I am satisfied, and will trouble you no more when these few lines aredismissed. The engagement which you were eager to form a fortnight agois no longer compatible with your views, and I rejoice to find thatthe prudent advice of your parents has not been given in vain. Yourrestoration to peace will, I doubt not, speedily follow this act offilial obedience, and I flatter myself with the hope of surviving myshare in this disappointment.S. V.XXXVIIIMRS. JOHNSON TO LADY SUSAN VERNONEdward StreetI am grieved, though I cannot be astonished at your rupture with Mr.De Courcy; he has just informed Mr. Johnson of it by letter. He leavesLondon, he says, to-day. Be assured that I partake in all your feelings,and do not be angry if I say that our intercourse, even by letter, mustsoon be given up. It makes me miserable; but Mr. Johnson vows that if Ipersist in the connection, he will settle in the country for the rest ofhis life, and you know it is impossible to submit to such an extremitywhile any other alternative remains. You have heard of course that theMainwarings are to part, and I am afraid Mrs. M. will come home to usagain; but she is still so fond of her husband, and frets so much abouthim, that perhaps she may not live long. Miss Mainwaring is just come totown to be with her aunt, and they say that she declares she will haveSir James Martin before she leaves London again. If I were you, I wouldcertainly get him myself. I had almost forgot to give you my opinion ofMr. De Courcy; I am really delighted with him; he is full as handsome, Ithink, as Mainwaring, and with such an open, good-humoured countenance,that one cannot help loving him at first sight. Mr. Johnson and heare the greatest friends in the world. Adieu, my dearest Susan, I wishmatters did not go so perversely. That unlucky visit to Langford! but Idare say you did all for the best, and there is no defying destiny.Your sincerely attachedALICIA.XXXIXLADY SUSAN TO MRS. JOHNSONUpper Seymour Street.My dear Alicia,--I yield to the necessity which parts us. Undercircumstances you could not act otherwise. Our friendship cannotbe impaired by it, and in happier times, when your situation is asindependent as mine, it will unite us again in the same intimacy asever. For this I shall impatiently wait, and meanwhile can safely assureyou that I never was more at ease, or better satisfied with myself andeverything about me than at the present hour. Your husband I abhor,Reginald I despise, and I am secure of never seeing either again. HaveI not reason to rejoice? Mainwaring is more devoted to me than ever; andwere we at liberty, I doubt if I could resist even matrimony offered byHIM. This event, if his wife live with you, it may be in your power tohasten. The violence of her feelings, which must wear her out, may beeasily kept in irritation. I rely on your friendship for this. I am nowsatisfied that I never could have brought myself to marry Reginald, andam equally determined that Frederica never shall. To-morrow, I shallfetch her from Churchhill, and let Maria Mainwaring tremble for theconsequence. Frederica shall be Sir James's wife before she quits myhouse, and she may whimper, and the Vernons may storm, I regard themnot. I am tired of submitting my will to the caprices of others; ofresigning my own judgment in deference to those to whom I owe no duty,and for whom I feel no respect. I have given up too much, have been tooeasily worked on, but Frederica shall now feel the difference. Adieu,dearest of friends; may the next gouty attack be more favourable! andmay you always regard me as unalterably yours,S. VERNONXLLADY DE COURCY TO MRS. VERNONMy dear Catherine,--I have charming news for you, and if I had not sentoff my letter this morning you might have been spared the vexation ofknowing of Reginald's being gone to London, for he is returned. Reginaldis returned, not to ask our consent to his marrying Lady Susan, but totell us they are parted for ever. He has been only an hour in the house,and I have not been able to learn particulars, for he is so very lowthat I have not the heart to ask questions, but I hope we shall soonknow all. This is the most joyful hour he has ever given us since theday of his birth. Nothing is wanting but to have you here, and it is ourparticular wish and entreaty that you would come to us as soon as youcan. You have owed us a visit many long weeks; I hope nothing will makeit inconvenient to Mr. Vernon; and pray bring all my grand-children; andyour dear niece is included, of course; I long to see her. It has beena sad, heavy winter hitherto, without Reginald, and seeing nobody fromChurchhill. I never found the season so dreary before; but this happymeeting will make us young again. Frederica runs much in my thoughts,and when Reginald has recovered his usual good spirits (as I trust hesoon will) we will try to rob him of his heart once more, and I am fullof hopes of seeing their hands joined at no great distance.Your affectionate mother,C. DE COURCYXLIMRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCYChurchhill.My dear Mother,--Your letter has surprized me beyond measure! Can it betrue that they are really separated--and for ever? I should be overjoyedif I dared depend on it, but after all that I have seen how can one besecure. And Reginald really with you! My surprize is the greater becauseon Wednesday, the very day of his coming to Parklands, we had a mostunexpected and unwelcome visit from Lady Susan, looking all cheerfulnessand good-humour, and seeming more as if she were to marry him when shegot to London than as if parted from him for ever. She stayed nearly twohours, was as affectionate and agreeable as ever, and not a syllable,not a hint was dropped, of any disagreement or coolness between them.I asked her whether she had seen my brother since his arrival in town;not, as you may suppose, with any doubt of the fact, but merely to seehow she looked. She immediately answered, without any embarrassment,that he had been kind enough to call on her on Monday; but she believedhe had already returned home, which I was very far from crediting. Yourkind invitation is accepted by us with pleasure, and on Thursday next weand our little ones will be with you. Pray heaven, Reginald may not bein town again by that time! I wish we could bring dear Frederica too,but I am sorry to say that her mother's errand hither was to fetch heraway; and, miserable as it made the poor girl, it was impossible todetain her. I was thoroughly unwilling to let her go, and so was heruncle; and all that could be urged we did urge; but Lady Susan declaredthat as she was now about to fix herself in London for several months,she could not be easy if her daughter were not with her for masters,&c. Her manner, to be sure, was very kind and proper, and Mr. Vernonbelieves that Frederica will now be treated with affection. I wish Icould think so too. The poor girl's heart was almost broke at takingleave of us. I charged her to write to me very often, and to rememberthat if she were in any distress we should be always her friends. I tookcare to see her alone, that I might say all this, and I hope made her alittle more comfortable; but I shall not be easy till I can go to townand judge of her situation myself. I wish there were a better prospectthan now appears of the match which the conclusion of your letterdeclares your expectations of. At present, it is not very likely,Yours ever, &c.,C. VERNONCONCLUSIONThis correspondence, by a meeting between some of the parties, and aseparation between the others, could not, to the great detriment of thePost Office revenue, be continued any longer. Very little assistanceto the State could be derived from the epistolary intercourse of Mrs.Vernon and her niece; for the former soon perceived, by the styleof Frederica's letters, that they were written under her mother'sinspection! and therefore, deferring all particular enquiry till shecould make it personally in London, ceased writing minutely or often.Having learnt enough, in the meanwhile, from her open-hearted brother,of what had passed between him and Lady Susan to sink the latter lowerthan ever in her opinion, she was proportionably more anxious to getFrederica removed from such a mother, and placed under her own care;and, though with little hope of success, was resolved to leave nothingunattempted that might offer a chance of obtaining her sister-in-law'sconsent to it. Her anxiety on the subject made her press for an earlyvisit to London; and Mr. Vernon, who, as it must already have appeared,lived only to do whatever he was desired, soon found some accommodatingbusiness to call him thither. With a heart full of the matter, Mrs.Vernon waited on Lady Susan shortly after her arrival in town, and wasmet with such an easy and cheerful affection, as made her almost turnfrom her with horror. No remembrance of Reginald, no consciousness ofguilt, gave one look of embarrassment; she was in excellent spirits, andseemed eager to show at once by ever possible attention to her brotherand sister her sense of their kindness, and her pleasure in theirsociety. Frederica was no more altered than Lady Susan; the samerestrained manners, the same timid look in the presence of her mother asheretofore, assured her aunt of her situation being uncomfortable, andconfirmed her in the plan of altering it. No unkindness, however, on thepart of Lady Susan appeared. Persecution on the subject of Sir James wasentirely at an end; his name merely mentioned to say that he was not inLondon; and indeed, in all her conversation, she was solicitous only forthe welfare and improvement of her daughter, acknowledging, in terms ofgrateful delight, that Frederica was now growing every day more and morewhat a parent could desire. Mrs. Vernon, surprized and incredulous,knew not what to suspect, and, without any change in her own views,only feared greater difficulty in accomplishing them. The first hopeof anything better was derived from Lady Susan's asking her whether shethought Frederica looked quite as well as she had done at Churchhill, asshe must confess herself to have sometimes an anxious doubt of London'sperfectly agreeing with her. Mrs. Vernon, encouraging the doubt,directly proposed her niece's returning with them into the country. LadySusan was unable to express her sense of such kindness, yet knew not,from a variety of reasons, how to part with her daughter; and as, thoughher own plans were not yet wholly fixed, she trusted it would ere longbe in her power to take Frederica into the country herself, concluded bydeclining entirely to profit by such unexampled attention. Mrs. Vernonpersevered, however, in the offer of it, and though Lady Susan continuedto resist, her resistance in the course of a few days seemed somewhatless formidable. The lucky alarm of an influenza decided what might nothave been decided quite so soon. Lady Susan's maternal fears were thentoo much awakened for her to think of anything but Frederica's removalfrom the risk of infection; above all disorders in the world she mostdreaded the influenza for her daughter's constitution!Frederica returned to Churchhill with her uncle and aunt; and threeweeks afterwards, Lady Susan announced her being married to Sir JamesMartin. Mrs. Vernon was then convinced of what she had only suspectedbefore, that she might have spared herself all the trouble of urginga removal which Lady Susan had doubtless resolved on from the first.Frederica's visit was nominally for six weeks, but her mother, thoughinviting her to return in one or two affectionate letters, was veryready to oblige the whole party by consenting to a prolongation of herstay, and in the course of two months ceased to write of her absence,and in the course of two or more to write to her at all. Frederica wastherefore fixed in the family of her uncle and aunt till such time asReginald De Courcy could be talked, flattered, and finessed into anaffection for her which, allowing leisure for the conquest of hisattachment to her mother, for his abjuring all future attachments, anddetesting the sex, might be reasonably looked for in the course of atwelvemonth. Three months might have done it in general, but Reginald'sfeelings were no less lasting than lively. Whether Lady Susan was orwas not happy in her second choice, I do not see how it can ever beascertained; for who would take her assurance of it on either side ofthe question? The world must judge from probabilities; she had nothingagainst her but her husband, and her conscience. Sir James may seem tohave drawn a harder lot than mere folly merited; I leave him, therefore,to all the pity that anybody can give him. For myself, I confess that Ican pity only Miss Mainwaring; who, coming to town, and putting herselfto an expense in clothes which impoverished her for two years, onpurpose to secure him, was defrauded of her due by a woman ten yearsolder than herself.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Lady Susan, by Jane Austen*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LADY SUSAN ******** This file should be named 946.txt or 946.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/9/4/946/Produced by An Anonymous VolunteerUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's Lord Palmerston: a opini?o e os factos, by Carlos TestaThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Lord Palmerston: a opini?o e os factos       um brado a pr? da verdadeAuthor: Carlos TestaRelease Date: June 4, 2008 [EBook #25697]Language: PortugueseCharacter set encoding: ISO-8859-1*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LORD PALMERSTON ***Produced by Pedro Saborano and the Online DistributedProofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book wasproduced from scanned images of public domain materialfrom the Google Print project.)LORD PALMERSTONA OPINI?O E OS FACTOSUm brado a pr? da verdadePor C. T.LISBOATyp. da Sociedade Typographica Franco-Portugueza6, Rua do Thesouro Velho, 6.1865            Infandum... jubes, novare dolorem.                              Virg. ?n.N?o ha nada, por bem extraordinario que pare?a, para que n?o se devaestar preparado. Realizam-se factos contra todas as supposi??es, ouprobabilidades moraes; e emquanto que muitas vezes se levantamescrupulos sobre incidentes triviaes, mas explorados em favor dasignifica??o que se lhes quer dar, ou do alcance moral e politico que sepertende ter em vista, outras vezes o olvido, a indulgencia, ou qualqueroutro sentimento menos austero, faz com que se esque?am acontecimentosgraves e se absolvam factos, nada innocentes para o pundonor de umana??o.Occorrem estas considera??es ? mente de quem por um momento reflectisseno que se passou na camara dos srs. deputados na sess?o de 20 docorrente, em que um membro d'aquella casa propoz duas mensagens deprofundo sentimento pela morte de lord Palmerston, sendo uma dirigida ?camara dos communs de Inglaterra, e outra ? viuva do dito lord.Consubstanciou o proponente as suas raz?es, envolvendo-as no manto deuma eloquencia elevada, vaporosa e figurada, onde a abundancia dasflores de estylo escondesse os espinhos do assumpto. Foram suas asseguintes express?es:    ?O primeiro titulo e a principal virtude do finado era o de melhor    amigo da Inglaterra; que, onde houvesse uma liberdade moribunda ou    uma liberdade a nascer, l? estava elle que era ao mesmo tempo aguia,    medico e sacerdote. ? primeira dava conselhos e ministrava vida nova    com o p?o eucharistico (!) de suas doutrinas. ? segunda tomava    d'ella nas suas garras, e a suspendia depois no ar, (_sic_) donde a    luz immensa de cima, e o exemplo debaixo, apontavam horisontes    claros do futuro, etc.    ?As minhas propostas requerem uma homenagem prestada aos mais    sagrados direitos da humanidade, etc... essa homenagem ? tambem    sobretudo uma divida de respeito universal que lhe devemos todos os    povos, e _de gratid?o nacional que n?s particularmente lhe devemos_,    etc...?Apoiado desde logo por um ex-ministro que se declarou prevenido eantecipado na proposta, e que assim lograva ter partilha nos applausosde occasi?o, concluiu o proponente o seu poetico discurso, appellandopara o parlamento afim de que ?_o acompanhasse nas saudades que a dorsincera de Portuguez lhe fazia pouzar sobre o tumulo de lordPalmerston_.?Se a camara approvou a proposta, respeitem-se os intentos e acatem-se asdecis?es.? licito supp?r que o enthusiasmo do momento, filho da maviosa e vi?osaphrase do eloquente deputado, abafasse qualquer outro sentimento intimona aprecia??o do assumpto; mas seja licito tambem avaliar ? sombra dahistoria quasi contemporanea, na calma da reflex?o, e longe do jardim daeloquencia, o conceito que deve merecer a Portugal o grande estadista,que, se foi (como disse o author da mo??o) o maior amigo da Inglaterra,n?o foi decerto em todas as ?pocas da sua vida politica o melhor amigode Portugal.A indica??o de alguns factos, suggeridos e sanccionados por documentosofficiaes, bastar? para provar esta asser??o.      *      *      *      *      *N?o ? necessario remontar ? primitiva historia do trafico de escravos,nem ?s primeiras tentativas feitas a pr? de sua aboli??o, para sereconhecer que n?o foi a Inglaterra a primeira na??o que mostrouempenhar-se n'este ultimo intento. J? no come?o d'este seculo algumasna??es tinham promulgado leis n'esse sentido, quando ainda a Inglaterrasustentava o principio da escravid?o.N?o era isso para extranhar n'uma na??o que durante longos annos foi aque mais commerciou e lucrou no trafico de escravos.A historia n?o se desmente e a li??o dos factos n?o ? f?cil decontestar-se.Pelo tratado denominado de _assiento de negros_ celebrado em 26 de mar?ode 1713 entre as coroas de Inglaterra e de Espanha, se estipulou ?que S.M. Britannica nomear? pessoas que se encarreguem de introduzir nascolonias Espanholas das Indias occidentaes da America, durante o prazode 30 annos, 144:000 negros pe?as d'India de ambos os sexos sendo 4:800em cada anno. Os ?assentistas poder?o empregar os navios propriedade deS. M. Britannica e de seus vassallos.?Pelo tratado de paz e amisade de 13 de julho do mesmo anno entre o ReiCatholico e a Rainha Anna da Gram-Bretanha, negociado pelo duque deOssuna e marquez de Montleon por parte da Espanha, e o bispo de Bristole o conde de Strafford por parte da Inglaterra, se estipulava omonopolio do trafico de escravos em favor d'esta; e pelo artigo 12.?diz-se que ?o Rei Catholico d? e concede a S. M. Britannica e ?companhia de vassallos seus para este fim formada, a faculdade paraintroduzir negros nas diversas partes chamadas de _assientos_, comexclus?o de Espanhoes ou quaesquer outros, isto por espa?o de 30 annos.?Que contraste! J? havia mais de um seculo que um frade dominicoEspanhol, Francisco Victoria, na sua obra _de Indis_, e seu discipuloDomingos de Soto, no tratado _de justitia et jure_ haviam pugnado pelaliberdade da ra?a humana; j? os frades redemptoristas catholicos iam ?Africa resgatar os captivos christ?os, e ainda a Inglaterra em nome dasua soberana, e por intermedio de um bispo protestante monopolisava parasi o trafico de escravos, antepondo ? voz da consciencia, o engodo dosinteresses que auferia d'este mercadejo de corpos endurecidos pelotrabalho e de almas embrutecidas pela servid?o e miseria!?quem do meiado do seculo passado as colonias Inglezas da America pediamrepetidas vezes a aboli??o da escravatura, mas a influencia dosinteresses da metropole fizeram sempre com que o parlamento e a cor?arejeitassem essas aspira??es, e a Inglaterra proseguia a despovoar aAfrica antepondo os interesses do ganho, a submetter-se ? voz dahumanidade.Edmund Burke, em seu notavel discurso sobre a concilia??o com a America,reconheceu que uma das causas da animadvers?o para com a Inglaterra, eraa pertinacia d'esta em recuzar-se a qualquer annuencia ?s tentativas dosEstados para obstar ao trafico de escravos, e que uma tal persistencia,e o abuso do veto Real em favor da escravid?o, foram uma das causas dasepara??o da America do Norte.Wheaton, publicista americano affirma na sua historia do direito dasgentes, que a escravid?o que at? hoje fazia parte integrante do systemasocial dos Estados do Sul da Republica dos Estados Unidos, n?o s? f?raalli introduzida pela m?e patria, mas que tambem ?s recuzas d'esta emannuir ?s medidas que as assembl?as provinciaes propunham para a abolir,? que se deve o haver-se perpetuado uma tal institui??o n'aquella parteda America.As tentativas de Clarkson, e as de Wilbeforce em 1804, no parlamentoBritannico, contra o trafico, ainda eram contrariadas pelo Governo daGram-Bretanha, vindo s?mente a ser adoptadas durante o ministerio dacoalis?o de Fox e Granville; e ?s grandes luctas internacionaesd'aquella ?poca, luctas que mudaram totalmente a face aos interessescommerciaes e coloniaes da Inglaterra, ? que se deve a nova phase que arespeito do trafico de escravatura tomou a politica d'aquella potencia.Por todo este conjuncto de factos e circumstancias bem se deixa perceberque o governo Portuguez a cuja frente se achavam Manoel Passos, S? daBandeira, e Vieira de Castro (Senior) abolindo pelo decreto de 10 deDezembro de 1836 o trafico da escravatura nas possess?es Portuguezas,tinha raz?o sobeja para consignar no relatorio do mesmo decreto, estassolemnes palavras:     ?O infame trafico dos negros ? certamente uma nodoa indelevel na     historia das na??es modernas, mas n?o fomos n?s os principaes, nem     os unicos, nem os peiores r?os. Cumplices que depois nos arguiram     tanto, peccaram mais e mais feiamente.?? por?m sabido que novas vistas politicas e commerciaes haviam tornadomais modernamente a Inglaterra sofrega por abolir o trafico; conven??esinternacionaes eram n'esse sentido diligenciadas por lord Palmerstonent?o ministro dos negocios estrangeiros d'aquelle paiz; e durante oanno de 1837 e parte de 38 se entabolaram com Portugal negocia??es paraa estipula??o de um tratado entre as duas cor?as, sendo o negociador ovisconde (hoje marquez) de S? da Bandeira, ministro dos negociosestrangeiros, e lord Howard de Walden, representante Britannico emLisboa.Ninguem se atrever? a duvidar por um momento, de qu?o sinceras e intimass?o e sempre foram as convic??es e o empenho do marquez de S? daBandeira em rela??o ao trafico de escravatura; e quando qualquerdivergencia possa haver sobre o modo de as avaliar, nunca taldivergencia poder? nem levemente admittir a supposi??o de que elle seprestasse a difficultar ou estorvar qualquer justa medida tendente ?aboli??o d'aquelle infame trafico. Mas eram taes as perten??es, e astricas diplomaticas do Governo Britannico cujo ministro de negociosestrangeiros era lord Palmerston, que ainda em maio de 1839 o ministrodos negocios estrangeiros de Portugal, S? da Bandeira, se via for?ado arebater a exigencia d'aquelle, qual era a de que Portugal aceitasse semaltera??o nem demora, uma minuta de tratado que lhe fosse apresentada,contendo bases differentes das que at? ent?o tinham sido combinadas nasnegocia??es entaboladas.E eram taes as bases propostas que mui dignamente procedeu o ent?ovisconde de S? da Bandeira repellindo tal exigencia como altamentelesiva ? liberdade da na??o, e ? independencia da cor?a. Entre ascondi??es propostas por lord Palmerston achavam-se nada menos do que aclausula da perpetuidade das estipula??es do tratado--o poder dado aoscruzadores Britannicos para destruirem ? sua vontade os naviosPortuguezes nos mares de Africa--e a faculdade de explorar as costas dosdominios Portuguezes at? ao ponto que importava viola??o de territorio.Apesar d'esta rejei??o, n?o cessava comtudo o governo Portuguez de uzarde todos os meios ao seu alcance tendentes a conduzir a cabo o seupensamento de repress?o ?quelle trafico. J? em fins de 1838 haviam sidodadas instruc??es positivas ao novo governador de Angola o almiranteNoronha, afim de fazer cumprir as disposi??es do decreto de 10 deDezembro de 1836, emquanto aguardasse o tratado que se negociava entreas duas na??es, mas cuja realisa??o s? era estorvada pelas delongasnascidas das perten??es e insistencias de lord Palmerston; e taes e t?osinceras eram as vistas do governo Portuguez e do visconde de S? daBandeira, ministro dos negocios estrangeiros e da marinha e ultramar,que at? nas instruc??es que elle d?ra ?quelle zeloso official haviaconcedido poderes taes, que lhe permittiram celebrar em Loanda umaconven??o provisoria em 29 de maio de 1839, com o capit?o Tuckercommandante das for?as navaes Britannicas nos mares de Africa,estabelecendo a faculdade de reciproco direito de visita e pesquiza nosnavios suspeitos de traficarem em escravos. Esta conven??o acha-setranscripta no _Diario do Governo_ de 4 de outubro de 1839.Os subterfugios diplomaticos, as calculadas delongas e pouca lizura porparte do governo Britannico no decurso das negocia??es com o governoPortuguez foram taes que motivaram a publica??o de um opusculo dovisconde de S? da Bandeira datado de 1840, ?poca em que havia deixado deser ministro, opusculo em que se tornam bem visiveis quaes os fins que aInglaterra e principalmente lord Palmerston tinham em taes manejos.Infelizmente parece que as verdades ali postas ? luz do dia, jazem nastrevas para muitos dos que n?o deveriam deixar-se assim adormecer nanoite dos factos, como se a noite podesse com sua escurid?o acobertar eatenuar a gravidade dos golpes vibrados contra a dignidade de uma na??o.As trevas que permittem dizer _n?o vi_, n?o podem comtudo desvanecer olab?o do crime, que ? luz teve por testemunhas a Europa e o Mundo.Deixem fallar a voz authorisada do Sr. Visconde (hoje marquez) de S? daBandeira no precitado opusculo:     ?O Governo Portuguez foi collocado no seguinte dilemma, ou aceitar     sem discuss?o o tratado proposto e imposto por lord     Palmerston--annuir a condi??es arduas para Portugal e assim     incorrer no desagrado da na??o Portugueza; ou ali?s rejeitar o     tratado expondo-se assim a perder a sua reputa??o aos olhos da     Gram-Bretanha e do mundo civilisado.?A prova d'este enunciado encontra-se nos discursos do proprioPalmerston, e no officio a elle dirigido por lord Howard de Walden em 45de fevereiro de 1839, no qual dizia haver informado ao visconde de S?que na hypothese de que o tratado n?o fosse aceito, em tal caso:     ?No parlamento Britannico seriam tomadas e approvadas as mais     rigorosas medidas contra Portugal, emquanto que os discursos alli     proferidos deprimindo o caracter da na??o Portugueza e seu governo,     seriam lidos por toda a parte do mundo e ficariam sem resposta; que     Portugal seria denunciado como o protector do trafico de escravos,     e que elle visconde de S? e seus amigos poderiam exclamar e     lamentar-se quanto quizessem no parlamento Portuguez, porque nada     do que n'este se proferisse seria lido ou ouvido f?ra de Portugal.?Seria demasiado longo o relatar e acompanhar todas as phasesdiplomaticas e de politica internacional havidas durante este periodo,em que as administra??es de que fizeram parte o visconde de S? daBandeira, e depois o bar?o da Ribeira de Sabrosa, se viram abarbadas comas insolitas perten??es, e at? com os insultos grosseiros de que lordPalmerston se servia para fazer press?o e m?ssa na dignidade da na??o enas regalias da cor?a Portugueza! Em sess?o de 15 de junho de 1839, oBar?o da Ribeira de Sabrosa, j? ministro dos negocios estrangeiros,apresentou ao parlamento os documentos e a correspondencia diplomatica,provando que f?ra Palmerston quem rompera as bases do tratado que seestava negociando.Deixemos por?m essas monstruosidades, que se tornam em bagatellas, emvista do extraordinario procedimento e da inaudita prepotencia, com quelord Palmerston apresentou no parlamento Britannico em julho do mesmoanno um _bill_, pelo qual (como muito bem dizia o sr. visconde de S? daBandeira no seu opusculo) ?realisava em discursos e em factos as amea?asat? ent?o feitas?, _bill_ a respeito do qual a folha official do governoPoutuguez de 28 do mesmo mez e anno se expressava da seguinte maneira:     ?Um importante facto politico come?a a realisar-se contra todas as     probabilidades moraes. O Governo de uma na??o illustre e poderosa,     acaba de prop?r uma medida altamente offensiva do direito das     gentes, contra outra na??o, a sua mais fiel e antiga alliada.     Sabemos com profunda magoa que finalmente lord Palmerston     apresent?ra no parlamento um _bill_ pelo qual a navega??o     Portugueza fica ? merc? e dependencia do mero arbitrio dos     cruzadores Inglezes. ? um acontecimento extraordinario na Europa,     etc.--Em diversos logares das nossas provincias ultramarinas tem     sido a bandeira Portugueza afrontada por for?as Inglezas. Em Bolama     se apresentaram elles em aberta hostilidade, etc.?O famoso _bill_ de lord Palmerston, encontra-se publicado na folhaofficial do Governo Portuguez de 9 de Agosto 1839. Por alli se v?, queeram suas disposi??es concebidas n'estes termos:     ?Digne-se V. M. ordenar que se decrete e seja decretado, por e com     conselho dos Lords espirituaes e temporaes, e dos communs ora     reunidos em parlamento, e pela authoridade do mesmo, que, no caso     que V. M. f?r servida expedir ordens aos seus cruzadores de     aprezarem os navios empregados no trafico de escravos a que se     allude n'este acto, ser? e seja licito para o tribunal supremo do     almirantado de Inglaterra, e todos os tribunaes de vice-almirantado     em quaesquer colonias de S. M. Britannica de al?m mar, o tomarem     conhecimento de qualquer embarca??o ou embarca??es e as julgarem     _quando naveguem debaixo de bandeira portugueza_, que forem detidas     ou apresadas por virtude de qualquer authoridade expedida na     conformidade das disposi??es d'este acto.     ?E seja decretado que todo o navio navegando _com bandeira     portugueza_, ficar? sujeito a aprizionamento, embargo ou     condemna??o, por virtude de qualquer authoridade dada ou passada na     conformidade d'este acto.?Sobre este assumpto, ponderava a mesma folha official em seu artigo defundo, o seguinte:     ?Qualquer que seja a id?a que possa fazer-se da exactid?o dos     motivos em que se funda este _singular documento_, basta a simples     leitura para que se reconhe?a que elle s? podia ter logar na     supposi??o de que Portugal havia _deixado de ser na??o     independente_.?As raz?es que na camara dos communs de Inglaterra se produziram em favord'este _bill_, d'este _singular_ documento, eram (como dizia em seuopusculo o Visconde de S? da Bandeira) de egual jaez d'aquellas, com queuma anterior administra??o de _que fizera parte o mesmo lordPalmerston_, annos antes e a proposito das justas reclama??es dePortugal sobre os direitos impostos aos seus vinhos, se proclamavan'aquella mesma camara esta terrivel maxima politica:     ?Que Portugal era muito fraco, e a Inglaterra muito forte, e que     por isso ella podia fazer o que julgasse mais conveniente!?Passou na camara dos communs o _bill_; mas encontrou obstaculos nacamara dos Lords. T?o contrario ? justi?a e t?o attentatorio elle era ?independencia de Portugal; t?o violenta era a droga da pharmaciapolitica d'aquelle _medico_, que at? achou vozes authorisadas que ocombatessem no seio d'aquella casa do parlamento Britannico. E foi a vozde um vulto conspicuo na moderna historia, a que mais calorosamenteadvogou a justi?a de Portugal. O duque de Wellington em sess?o de 1 deAgosto proferiu bem alto, que ?Portugal havia de resistir ou perecer,porque se elle se sujeitasse ? legislatura da Gram-Bretanha _deixarialogo de ser na??o independente_.?Era assim que o heroe, cujo nome se achava unido aos titulos maishonrosos da gloria militar do seu paiz, ainda ent?o a poupava a t?ogrande deslustre, qual o de aviltar pela for?a, e contra todo o direito,outra na??o que quando f?ra por elle guiada j? se havia illustrado porfamosas victorias contra um formidavel inimigo commum.O _Times_, o mais authorisado jornal inglez expressava-se a tal respeitopelo seguinte modo:     ?O _bill_ era uma medida summamente _tyrannica_. Uma grande     potencia arrogava a si uma supremacia insolente sobre outra mais     pequena. Os lords procederam com dignidade, n?o querendo apoiar com     o seu assentimento um systema de intimida??o. Acaso ousaria lord     Palmerston tratar a Fran?a como tratava Portugal??O povo Portuguez sentia e manifestava a sua indigna??o; e comointerprete d'este geral sentimento, o ministro dos negociosestrangeiros, ent?o o bar?o da Ribeira da Sabrosa, dirigia em 4 deagosto (1839) a todas as potencias signatarias dos tratados do congressode Vienna, uma nota em f?rma de energico protesto, contra o que na mesmase qualificava de _procedimento offensivo e inaudito_ do governoBritannico, pelo seu ministro lord Palmerston.Quem, sendo contemporaneo d'essa ?poca n?o f?r de todo desmemoriado,dever? n?o ter esquecido os preg?es com que os cegos, vendilh?es deLisboa, annunciavam impresso o _injusto bill de lord Palmerston_. Masquem diria aos cegos de ent?o, e ao povo que indignado ouvia a noticiada injusti?a de que era victima, que n?o deixaria de vir tempo em que ofautor de taes ultrajes teria na metempsycose de _aguia_, _medico_ e_sacerdote_, quem lhe celebrasse culto, carpindo lagrimas e_pousando-lhe saudades na campa, em nome da dor sincera de Portugal_!      *      *      *      *      *F?ra rejeitado na camara dos lords o _bill_ Palmerston, que se naopini?o do _Times_ era uma medida _summamente tyrannica--uma supremaciainsolente--um systema cobarde de intimida??o_, pela declara??o officialdo governo Portuguez era classificado como _procedimento offensivo einaudito_; e segundo o voto do duque de Wellington, por elle _deixariaPortugal de ser na??o independente_.Julgava-se pois n'esta parte concluida t?o grave quest?o, qual a do_bill_, que havendo sido rejeitado, deixava de ferir a victima, emboran?o deixasse de manchar o algoz.Mas os factos que logo se seguiram, vieram mostrar que lord Palmerston,o maior amigo da Inglaterra, era sen?o o maior, pelo menos o maisfigadal inimigo de Portugal; logo na sess?o de 15 de agosto do mesmoanno apresentou um novo _bill_ apenas modificado na f?rma, masinteiramente concorde na essencia com as disposi??es attentatoriascontra a independencia, pundonor e dignidade da na??o Portugueza.E em quanto as folhas ministeriaes Inglezas, e principalmente o _Globe_,(que a opini?o publica de Inglaterra affirmava estar debaixo da absolutainfluencia de mylord) tratavam Portugal com o maior desabrimento einjusti?a, por outra parte se preparavam novas e mais atrozes injuriasnas casas do parlamento, contra uma na??o a quem s? podiam fazer taesaggravos mediante a mais cobarde prepotencia, e direito da for?a bruta.Lord Brougham, orando em favor do _bill_ Palmerston, divagando entre oabsurdo e o insulto, chegou a dizer:     ?Que a Inglaterra podia dar leis a Portugal do mesmo modo que as     dava ? Jamaica, ? Dominica, e ? Barbada; e que as aguas do Tejo n?o     deviam correr sem sua licen?a. Deixae fallar de resistencia contra     n?s, que devemos ser considerados mais como dominadores, do que     amigos.?No _Diario do Governo_ de 24 de agosto (1839) se encontram publicadasofficialmente estas express?es, proferidas n'aquella sess?o, no mesmoparlamento, e talvez que no mesmo debate em que lord Palmerstondeclarava, que a bandeira Portugueza era uma bandeira _prostituta_.O _bill_ d'esta vez passou na camara dos lords. Mas o voto authorisadod'aquelle que j? conhecera e ainda n?o esquecera os brios da na??oPortugueza, e reconhecia quanto era ignobil o aviltal-a por meios t?oinjustos, o voto do Duque de Wellington formulado em protesto e firmadopor mais treze pares, alli ficava como um valioso padr?o que servisse deegide moral contra tanta prepotencia e persistente animosidade de lordPalmerston para com Portugal. Era esse despeito, essa animosidade quemdava causa a que n?o cessassem de ser postos em pratica por parte demylord, os meios directos ou indirectos que podessem deprimir este paiz.Por isso o _Diario do Governo_ de 15 de setembro (1839) tinha occasi?o emotivo de transcrever o seguinte:     ?O _Globe_ de 7 (? o jornal de lord Palmerston) transcrevendo o     protesto que o governo Portuguez fizera ante as potencias     signatarias dos tratados do congresso de Vienna pela violencia do     _bill_, explica-se da maneira mais insolita contra Portugal. A sua     linguagem ? de tal modo violenta, que faz admira??o ver at? que     ponto o jornalista se deixou levar do impeto das paix?es. O seu     despeito varia alternativamente entre o absurdo, a injuria, e a     calumnia.?Mas n?o se limitava lord Palmerston, essa _aguia que suspendia asliberdades_, esse _medico_ de receituario t?o aspero que dava morte,esse _sacerdote_ cujo p?o _eucharistico_ (!) eram taes doutrinas deperdi??o, n?o se limitava a ferir pela injuria e pelo aviltamento; aosmeios moraes seguiam-se os factos materiaes; factos, que sendo feiasperten??es em qualquer ?poca, eram na conjunctura em que se davam, novosmeios de violencia, empregados com refinada acrimonia contra a na??oPortugueza.Com o intuito de fazer acintosa press?o sobre uma na??o, a respeito daqual se promulgavam leis e se votava um _bill_ que importava annular-lhea independencia, e sujeital-o ?s condi??es da _Jamaica_, _Barbada_ ou_Dominica_, n?o duvidava lord Palmerston aproveitar-se de qualquerincidente, e barafustar qualquer pretexto que lhe fornecesse novos meiosde embara?ar a situa??o politica de Portugal, complicando-lhe a suaposi??o mediante exigencias imperiosas, que importassem novasdifficuldades.Foi por isso que lord Palmerston fez apoiar pelo representante dogoverno Inglez na c?rte de Lisboa, lord Howard de Walden, as reclama??esde um certo Jonh Milley Doyle, subdito Britannico, o qual allegando tersido preso em Portugal durante a grande lucta civil, accusava o governod'este paiz de lhe n?o haver reparado os damnos e incommodos, pelosquaes exigia 6:000 libras esterlinas a titulo de indemnisa??o, al?m dosjuros pelo retardo; e havia requerido ao parlamento Britannico para lheobter uma carta de marca, com que podesse aprezar navios portuguezes at?que pelo valor d'elles se indemnisasse da somma em que avaliava asperdas!! Seria difficil, (dizia a folha official do governo Portuguez)decidir ?o que tinha maior parte n'esta id?a, _se a loucura, se aousadia_.?No _Diario do Governo_ de 11 de setembro se acha transcripta a nota doministro Ribeira de Sabrosa em resposta ? exigencia de lord Palmerston,o qual fazia obra pela atrevida preten??o filha da _loucura_ e _ousadia_de Milley Doyle, quando phantasi?ra seus calculos com tanta desfa?atez einsolencia, que s? tinham rival no apoio que lhe dava um ministro dacor?a.N?o parou aqui o _sacerdocio_ nem a _medicina_ que lord Palmerstondispensava ? na??o Portugueza. Por sua ordem, lord Howard de Waldenredobrava notas reformando aquellas reclama??es. Em 9 de outubro exigiaque o governo Portuguez nomeasse desde logo uma commiss?o para liquidaras contas e solver varias quantias, sob pena de que o governo Britannicoa nomearia e se julgaria habilitado por obra da mesma a haver dePortugal o pleno pagamento.Pela nota de lord Howard de Walden, inserta no _Diario do Governo_ de 12de novembro, se v? que augmentavam as exigencias pecuniarias a ponto dese pedirem entre outras novas verbas, 100 libras esterlinas deindemnisa??o a favor de dois marinheiros da escuna _Clarence_, porquehaviam sido prezos em Portugal por contrabando de tabaco! Augmentandoesta crescente formula de vexame, para acobardar uma na??o pelo terror epelos embara?os, lord Howard de Walden enviava em 6 de novembro aogoverno Portuguez uma nova reclama??o, na qual se incluiam as contas deMilley Doyle, dos marinheiros do _Clarence_, e de outros subditosbritannicos, todos contemplados ? m?o larga com verbas de capital e dejuros, juntando a isto outras reclama??es anteriores, e intimandoperemptoriamente o governo Portuguez para sem mais exame nem deten?asatisfazer a somma de libras esterlinas 375:475.--17s--10d, ou r?is1.603:504$885, com amea?a de fazer occupar as suas possess?esultramarinas em caso de hesita??o. Nos _Di?rios do Governo_ de 12 e 17de novembro (1839) se acham publicadas as referidas notas, que deramcausa a outra do bar?o da Ribeira de Sabrosa de 25 de novembro, na qualcedendo aos argumentos da for?a, n?o se descurava de exigir ocumprimento de tratados que obrigavam a Inglaterra a ceder a Portugal acidade de Columbo na ilha de Ceyl?o.E toda esta serie de procedimentos vexatorios, n?o provaria mais orancor de animo da parte de lord Palmerston, do que a existencia dequalquer plauzivel pretexto para assacar a Portugal a p?cha de remissoou falto de empenho na cohibi??o do trafico de escravatura? De certo;porque se assim n?o f?ra, n?o escreveria Lord H. de Walden a nota de 15de novembro, (_Diario_ de 21) partecipando por parte do seu governo, quen?o approvava a conven??o provisoria de 29 de maio do mesmo annocelebrada entre o governador de Angola, e o capit?o Tucker, conven??oesta (a que j? se alludiu), cujo fim era p?r estorvos ao trafico deescravos, e que o governo Portuguez mand?ra observar por portaria de 30de setembro. Os motivos da n?o approva??o bazearam-se em que j? _n?o eranecessaria_, em consequencia das instruc??es geraes que o governoBritannico tinha dado aos cruzadores! Estas instruc??es eram aconsumma??o do _bill_; j? _n?o era necessaria_ a conven??ointernacional, por quanto pelo _bill_, lord Palmerston legislava paraPortugal como _se fosse a Jamaica, ou a Barbada_!Lord Palmerston fizera de facto transmittir aos navios de guerraBritannicos as ordens n'esse sentido. O governo de uma na??o poderosa,cheio de animosidades e de arrojo contra uma na??o fraca com a qual sedizia em paz, havia passado a p?r em pratica as medidas que legisl?racontra todos os direitos reconhecidos, e que importavam a quebra dosdireitos de independencia, e a morte moral d'essa nacionalidade assimopprimida pela for?a e pela prosterga??o de todas as praxes de direitointernacional.Se lord Palmerston era a _aguia_, o _medico_ e o _sacerdote_ dasliberdades, que as _suspendia no ar_ e lhes dava a vida e _p?oeucharistico_(!!), para com Portugal dir-se-hia ser o milhafre querasgava a preza--medico que apressava a morte, e sacerdote para......nada de blasphemias.... porque o _fermento_ de suas doutrinas aindaproduzia seus effeitos, como se deprehende do _Diario do Governo_ de 11de dezembro (1839) onde, entre as noticias officiaes de Angola seencontram as seguintes:     ?Em virtude da conven??o de 29 de maio entre o almirante Noronha e     o capit?o Tucker, entrou no Zaire o commandante Elliot do brigue     _Columbine_, e ahi aprezou alguns navios, talvez em contraven??o do     decreto de 10 de dezembro de 1836; mas n?o encontrou motivo para     assim proceder com o brigue _Neptuno_ de Lisboa, e a escuna     _Angerona_ de Loanda, que estavam alli. Passados dias foi o     _Neptuno_ abordado de noite pelos escaleres, e pouco depois havendo     recebido algum fogo feito pelos pretos, aprezaram a _Angerona_.     Sahiu o _Columbine_ com os vazos aprezados, e encontrando o paquete     de Loanda, obrigou-o a deter-se 24 horas, e passou para elle as     tripula??es, e ? vista do mesmo paquete para testemunhar a     affronta, collocou-se entre as embarca??es n'uma das quaes estava a     bandeira Portugueza, e lhes fez fogo at? as metter a pique. Este     facto que n?o passa de um _attentado individual_, e que s? prova o     brutal atrevimento de quem o praticou, ? escandaloso pela _cobarde     injuria_ feita ? bandeira Portugueza, cujo governo em desaggravo     n?o p?de deixar de pedir satisfa??o.?N'esta sentida aprecia??o feita pelo jornal official do governoPortuguez, havia apenas um equivoco, qual era supp?r que taes factos n?opassassem de um attentado individual. Engano! Era a justi?a de lordPalmerston executada pelos seus lictores. O capit?o Elliot foi promovidopela _cobarde injuria_ ? bandeira Portugueza, e lord Palmerston ministrodos negocios estrangeiros da Gram-Bretanha para tirar ?quella proezatodo o caracter de individual, apressou-se a communicar ao governoPortuguez a noticia da promo??o, assim como pratic?ra a respeito docommandante do _Leveret_ que no porto de Mo?ambique abordou ? for?a umnavio fundeado debaixo das baterias Portuguezas, ferindo e espancando aseu bordo at? os officiaes d'alfandega que alli se achavam em desempenhode seu dever!Era o remate da obra; ? violencia e ao insulto era mister juntar oacinte e o escarneo! A _grandeza_ dos feitos n?o era para t?o altasrecompensas, mas parece que tal era a insaciabilidade de lord Palmerstonem assim deprimir acintosamente a na??o Portugueza, que at? quizpromover o commandante do _Eclair_ por haver devastado o estabelecimentoda ilha de Gallinhas na costa de Guin?, no qual feito esse officialcompletou sua fa?anha, assassinando com um tiro de pistola a filha docoronel Mattos que fugia ?s suas tentativas de seduc??o.Chovam pois sobre a campa de lord Palmerston as _saudades que a dorsincera dos Portuguezes deve alli pouzar, pela gratid?o nacional que n?sparticularmente lhe devemos_!!A na??o Portugueza, assim opprimida ? escarnecida por um governoestranho cuja alma era Palmerston, passava por uma angustiosa crize, eeram amargos os dias que lhe fazia soffrer a politica acintosa d'aquelleministro. ?s affrontas succediam-se affrontas, ?s amea?as e ? for?adeviam ceder a fraqueza e o torpor da victima. Dir-se-hia que a _aguia_fazia bem sentir a Portugal o gume de suas garras, que encravava at?ferir as fibras vitaes da independencia, para ainda em seguida saciar afereza sugando-lhe o sangue! O ouro do erario Portuguez hia locupletaraquelles que o reclamavam a seu talante, e que para o haverem, achavamem mylord o sustentaculo das suas perten??es, entre as quaes primavamaquellas do que havia aspirado ? carta de marca, e ao corso maritimo! Avictima maniatada dava o c?lo ao executor d'alta injusti?a; a s?de deouro havia sido saciada; s? ent?o a _aguia_ encolheu as azas e repousoupor alguns momentos da fadigosa tarefa de _suspender no ar_, masferindo, a liberdade, e com esta a nacionalidade Portugueza!Outra administra??o succed?ra no governo Portuguez; as cartas de lei de3 e 17 d'outubro de 1840 authorisaram a realisa??o dos fundos, e opagamento das reclama??es; e novas negocia??es se hiam entabolando parachegar ? conven??o e ratifica??o de um tratado, pelo qual cessasse oestado anomalo que era a excep??o mais insolita nas rela??esinternacionaes. O cordeiro hia estipular com o lobo; mas o duque dePalmella nomeado negociador por parte do governo Portuguez poude comfino tacto e prudencia levar a cabo a negocia??o, e o tratado de 8 dejulho de 1842 veio finalmente restabelecer as rela??es entre Portugal ea Gram-Bretanha nas bases de uma reciprocidade, que at? ent?o f?racompletamente contrariada pela _tyrannia_ de lord Palmerston.Mas o espirito de maleficio, a sanha, e a altivez que durante t?o longaquadra f?ra o caracter mais saliente e incessante dos procedimentosd'aquelle estadista contra a na??o Portugueza, ainda deixava ver osvestigios do quanto elle actu?ra na indole e conducta dos executores deseus mandados. J? o tratado de 1842 f?ra ractificado entre as duascoroas e ainda o commodore inglez Foote entrava no porto de Loanda, parap?r em execu??o as praticas at? ent?o uzadas ? sombra do attentatorio_bill_; mas a paciencia estava exhaurida, e felizmente houve um officialda marinha Portugueza que soube fazer recuar a audacia d'aquelle, queantepunha o consuetudinario direito da for?a, prescripto pelo bill delord Palmerston, ? for?a do direito convencionado, e, que por ser defresca data se intentava ainda postergar, pelo apego aos passadosprocedimentos.O commodore Foote com a sua fragata _Madagascar_ recuou perante aenergica firmeza do commandante Gon?alves Cardoso, o qual, emboracommandasse uma corveta, se mostrava decidido a vender c?ra qualquerviola??o de direitos que se pertendesse consummar. Era j? tempo de p?rcobro a um estado de cousas, que para uma na??o independente se tornavaquasi peior do que o seu desapparecimento do mappa da Europa.A _aguia_ das nacionalidades estendia seus v?os por sobre outrasregi?es. Pairava sobre o Imperio Chim, e qual _medico e sacerdote_propinava-lhe com o veneno do opio, o conf?rto da guerra.Mais tarde a Grecia via-se assoberbada pela mesma politica audaz, quealli hia apoiar pela amea?a com a for?a, e pelo bloqueio com a ruina docommercio Hellenico, as extravagantes reclama??es do israelita DavidPacifico.As reclama??es pecuniarias ? Espanha no momento em que esta se empenhavana guerra com Marrocos, davam nova amostra d'aquella politica, pela qualse estendia a m?o com o sacco ? primeira, emquanto se forneciam muni??ese armas ? segunda.O Brasil n?o se subtrahia ao holocausto em que se immolavam as regaliasde independencia das na??es _n?o poderosas_. Medidas semelhantes ?s queem 1839 haviam sido adoptadas contra Portugal, eram em 1845 dictadas eapplicadas ?quelle Imperio.Longo e muito longo seria o capitulo dos _items_ d'esta politicasobranceira e pouco escrupulosa, de que lord Palmerstron tanto abuzou,arrogando para si um direito, na sem ceremonia com que desdenhosamentelegislava para estados independentes, em viola??o flagrante dos maissagrados principios que regem a moral e a justi?a das na??es. Era aproposito de uma tal politica, que o conde de Ficquelmont, na suanotavel obra _lord Palmerston, l'Angleterre et le continent_, dizia emphrase de severa condemna??o:     ?Aucune forme de gouvernement ne peut donner le droit d'avoir dans     sa l?gislation, des principes hostiles aux autres ?tats. Les pays     libres, comme tout ?tat quelconque, n'ont de droits que sur     eux-m?mes. Ils ne peuvent ? aucun ?gard, faire l'application de     leurs principes aux relations des ?tats ?trangers, car la libert?     qui donnerait les droits sur les autres, serait une arme     d'oppression, que chacun aurait le droit de chercher ? briser.?Na applica??o feita por lord Palmerston d'esta especie de liberdade quese torna _uma arma de oppress?o_, coube a Portugal bom quinh?o napartilha; e por isso podem dispensar-se mais exemplos de f?ra, quandotantos, e demais os ha de caza. S?o os factos que assim o asseveram.C?sse por?m a pungente narrativa de tantos e t?o notaveis procedimentosdo ministro de uma na??o poderosa, contra outra inerme e empobrecida,vilipendiada pela sujei??o aos caprichos illegaes de que elle soub?ra epod?ra servir-se como passatempo, em homenagem ao despeito, e ?s paix?esodientas que lhe dedic?ra, e tanto manifest?ra.Deixemos este ambiente repugnante, esta athmosphera infeccionada pelosmiasmas lethaes cuja aspira??o ainda recorda dias bem crueis para opundonor da nacionalidade Portugueza.Corr?mos um v?o sobre a atrocidade do capit?o Keppell em Mac?o, onde oassassinio violento de um soldado Portuguez, a viola??o do territorioregado pelo sangue de seus filhos, tudo obra de m?o armada e trai?oeira,sendo ministro lord Palmerston, teve da parte d'este como satisfa??o, oempenho de querer negar a Portugal o direito de soberania sobre aquellapossess?o!Cubr?mos ainda o rosto, porque a bandeira das quinas foi mais de uma vezderribada de seu poste na ilha de Bolama, a guarni??o d'esta conduzidaprisioneira; e lord Palmerston mandou tomar posse d'aquella ilha, eoccupa-la militarmente, fazendo sempre orelha surda aos clamoresformulados pelas vias mais legaes.Abrevie-se este epilogo de attentados, que tantos em numero e tantos emmagnitude elles s?o, que oxal? ahi podessem jazer para todo sempreenvoltos no p? do esquecimento, como o est?o no ?sco da sua fealdade._Paz aos mortos_, seria a mais resignada phraze, o mais caridosoepitaphio que a voz de Portuguezes se podesse esculpir sobre a campad'aquelle, que em vida n?o foi o seu melhor amigo.Mas essa paz quem a perturba? Quem ? a causa de se revolverem as cinzasdo finado?A causa? Est? no incenso que se lan?a agora nos thuribulos, e que sequer queimar em reverente homenagem ? memoria d'aquelle cujos feitos,para serem esquecidos na paz do tumulo, carecem que seu nome n?o sejaengrinaldado com o atributo de _merecedor da gratid?o nacional_, nem como incompativel titulo de _credor das saudades inspiradas pela dor dePortugal_. A causa, repita-se, est? no modo parcial com que se avaliamos factos, n?o pelo que elles s?o, mas conforme o lado de donde vem........ Surgem por ahi ?s vezes certos zelos insoffridos a pr? deregalias nacionaes, quando estas est?o bem longe de correr perigo, ousoffrer desdouro. Para que ? ent?o a altivez para com o inoffensivo efraco, se logo apoz se vae curvar o joelho em homenagem ? memoria doforte, mas do forte que fez sentir o pezo da sua press?o?Preste-se muito embora a mais justa venera??o a um povo, a umanacionalidade, que a ella tem jus por tantos titulos valiosos; mas,distinc??o feita, n?o v? t?o longe a reverencia ? sua _politica_ altivae ruim, a ponto de ser uma das victimas d'esta, quem lhe preste o cultona pessoa do sacerdote.A entidade moral na??o, n?o p?de prescindir do resentimento, que lhe n?odeixa medir sua indulgencia pela paix?o individual de cora??o do homem.P?de o homem perdoar, mas uma na??o n?o p?de esquecer!Um quarto de seculo na vida das na??es n?o ? prazo sufficiente parasanar feridas que tanto sangraram, e de que restam cicatrizes; se estelapso de tempo apenas permitte dar tregoas ao resentimento, n?o ? ellebastante para que incite a oscular a m?o que vibrou os golpes, e queespargiu o veneno do vilipendio.? por isso que hoje, a reverencia perante o tumulo, e o silencio s?entrecortado pelo brado de _paz aos mortos_, seria o mais adequado, e umainda generoso apanagio, ? memoria d'aquelle para quem ha um quarto deseculo, taes mensagens, qualquer que fosse a sua phrase, s? poderiam tera significa??o e o alcance que tinha nos circos da Roma pag?, o brado_morituri te salutant_.Lisboa 28 novembro 1865.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Lord Palmerston: a opini?o e os factos, by Carlos Testa*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LORD PALMERSTON ******** This file should be named 25697-8.txt or 25697-8.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/5/6/9/25697/Produced by Pedro Saborano and the Online DistributedProofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book wasproduced from scanned images of public domain materialfrom the Google Print project.)Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg THE CHINESE CLASSICS:  (PROLEGOMENA) by Legge#2 in our series by James LeggeCopyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to checkthe laws for your country before redistributing these files!!!Please take a look at the important information in this header.We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping anelectronic path open for the next readers.Please do not remove this.This should be the first thing seen when anyone opens the book.Do not change or edit it without written permission.  The wordsare carefully chosen to provide users with the information theyneed about what they can legally do with the texts.**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts****Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971***These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, andfurther information is included below.  We need your donations.Presently, contributions are only being solicted from people in:Texas, Nevada, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, South Dakota,Iowa, Indiana, and Vermont. As the requirements for other statesare met, additions to this list will be made and fund raising willbegin in the additional states. These donations should be made to:Project Gutenberg Literary Archive FoundationPMB 1131739 University Ave.Oxford, MS 38655Title:  THE CHINESE CLASSICS (PROLEGOMENA)Author:  James LeggeRelease Date:  December, 2001  [Etext #2941][Yes, we are about one year ahead of schedule]Edition:  10Project Gutenberg THE CHINESE CLASSICS:  (PROLEGOMENA) by Legge*****This file should be named 2941.txt or 2941.zip******This etext was prepared by Rick Davis of Ashigawa, Japan, withassistance from David Steelman, Taiwan.Project Gutenberg Etexts are usually created from multiple editions,all of which are in the Public Domain in the United States, unless acopyright notice is included.  Therefore, we usually do NOT keep anyof these books in compliance with any particular paper edition.We are now trying to release all our books one year in advanceof the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.Please be encouraged to send us error messages even years afterthe official publication date.Please note:  neither this list nor its contents are final tillmidnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is atMidnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  Apreliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, commentand editing by those who wish to do so.Most people start at our sites at:http://gutenberg.nethttp://promo.net/pgThose of you who want to download any Etext before announcementcan surf to them as follows, and just download by date; this isalso a good way to get them instantly upon announcement, as theindexes our cataloguers produce obviously take a while after anannouncement goes out in the Project Gutenberg Newsletter.http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext02orftp://ftp.ibiblio.org/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext02Or /etext01, 00, 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90Just search by the first five letters of the filename you want,as it appears in our Newsletters.Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  Thetime it takes us, a rather conservative estimate, is fifty hoursto get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyrightsearched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  Thisprojected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our valueper text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2million dollars per hour this year as we release fifty new Etextfiles per month, or 500 more Etexts in 2000 for a total of 3000+If they reach just 1-2% of the world's population then the totalshould reach over 300 billion Etexts given away by year's end.The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion EtextFiles by December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 Trillion]This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,which is only about 4% of the present number of computer users.At our revised rates of production, we will reach only one-thirdof that goal by the end of 2001, or about 3,333 Etexts unless wemanage to get some real funding.The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been createdto secure a future for Project Gutenberg into the next millennium.We need your donations more than ever!Presently, contributions are only being solicited from people in:Colorado, Connecticut, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa,Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nevada,Montana, Nevada, Oklahoma, South Carolina,South Dakota, Texas, Vermont, and Wyoming.As the requirements for other states are met,additions to this list will be made and fund raisingwill begin in the additional states.These donations should be made to:Project Gutenberg Literary Archive FoundationPMB 1131739 University Ave.Oxford, MS 38655-4109Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation,EIN [Employee Identification Number] 64-6221541,has been approved as a 501(c)(3) organization by the US InternalRevenue Service (IRS).  Donations are tax-deductible to the extentpermitted by law.  As the requirements for other states are met,additions to this list will be made and fund raising will begin in theadditional states.All donations should be made to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation.  Mail to:Project Gutenberg Literary Archive FoundationPMB 1131739 University AvenueOxford, MS 38655-4109  [USA]We need your donations more than ever!You can get up to date donation information at:http://www.gutenberg.net/donation.html***If you can't reach Project Gutenberg,you can always email directly to:Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>hart@pobox.com forwards to hart@prairienet.org and archive.orgif your mail bounces from archive.org, I will still see it, ifit bounces from prairienet.org, better resend later on. . . .Prof. Hart will answer or forward your message.We would prefer to send you information by email.***Example command-line FTP session:ftp ftp.ibiblio.orglogin: anonymouspassword: your@logincd pub/docs/books/gutenbergcd etext90 through etext99 or etext00 through etext02, etc.dir [to see files]get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]GET GUTINDEX.??  [to get a year's listing of books, e.g., GUTINDEX.99]GET GUTINDEX.ALL [to get a listing of ALL books]**The Legal Small Print**(Three Pages)***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong withyour copy of this etext, even if you got it for free fromsomeone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not ourfault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statementdisclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you howyou may distribute copies of this etext if you want to.*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXTBy using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tmetext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and acceptthis "Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receivea refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext bysending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the personyou got it from.  If you received this etext on a physicalmedium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTSThis PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etexts,is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor Michael S. Hartthrough the Project Gutenberg Association (the "Project").Among other things, this means that no one owns a United States copyrighton or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy anddistribute it in the United States without permission andwithout paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forthbelow, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etextunder the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.Please do not use the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark to marketany commercial products without permission.To create these etexts, the Project expends considerableefforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domainworks.  Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and anymedium they may be on may contain "Defects".  Among otherthings, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or otherintellectual property infringement, a defective or damageddisk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computercodes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGESBut for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,[1] Michael Hart and the Foundation (and any other party you mayreceive this etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaimsall liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, includinglegal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE ORUNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVEOR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THEPOSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days ofreceiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within thattime to the person you received it from.  If you received iton a physical medium, you must return it with your note, andsuch person may choose to alternatively give you a replacementcopy.  If you received it electronically, such person maychoose to alternatively give you a second opportunity toreceive it electronically.THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU ASTO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOTLIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR APARTICULAR PURPOSE.Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties orthe exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so theabove disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and youmay have other legal rights.INDEMNITYYou will indemnify and hold Michael Hart, the Foundation,and its trustees and agents, and any volunteers associatedwith the production and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tmtexts harmless, from all liability, cost and expense, includinglegal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of thefollowing that you do or cause:  [1] distribution of this etext,[2] alteration, modification, or addition to the etext,or [3] any Defect.DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or bydisk, book or any other medium if you either delete this"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,or:[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,     including any form resulting from conversion by word     processing or hypertext software, but only so long as     *EITHER*:     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and          does *not* contain characters other than those          intended by the author of the work, although tilde          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may          be used to convey punctuation intended by the          author, and additional characters may be used to          indicate hypertext links; OR     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent          form by the program that displays the etext (as is          the case, for instance, with most word processors);          OR     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC          or other equivalent proprietary form).[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this     "Small Print!" statement.[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Foundation of 20% of the     gross profits you derive calculated using the method you     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are     payable to "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation"     the 60 days following each date you prepare (or were     legally required to prepare) your annual (or equivalent     periodic) tax return.  Please contact us beforehand to     let us know your plans and to work out the details.WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number ofpublic domain and licensed works that can be freely distributedin machine readable form.The Project gratefully accepts contributions of money, time,public domain materials, or royalty free copyright licenses.Money should be paid to the:"Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment orsoftware or other items, please contact Michael Hart at:hart@pobox.com*END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.12.12.00*END*This etext was prepared by Rick Davis of Ashigawa, Japan, withassistance from David Steelman, Taiwan.A note from the digitizerThis is a text file that can be read on any computer with anyChinese-capable word processor or text editor. If you have the Big5 character set for Chinese installed, choosing that set from yourfont menu will display the Chinese characters properly. Even ifChinese is not installed on your computer, the English will bedisplayed properly, even though the Chinese will appear asgarbage characters.This digitized version preserves the original page breaks. Thetext of each page is followed by its footnotes. Note referencenumbers in the text are enclosed in square brackets. In this textversion, all diacriticals have been omitted.In a few places I have substituted the character forms availablein the Big 5 character set for rare or (what are now considered)nonstandard forms used by Legge. Characters not included in theBig 5 character set in any form are described by their constituentelements.This file contains only the Prolegomena; the other parts ofLegge's work are in separate files.THE CHINESE CLASSICSwith a translation, critical and exegeticalnotes, prolegomena, and copious indexesbyJames LeggeIN FIVE VOLUMESCONFUCIAN ANALECTSTHE GREAT LEARNINGTHE DOCTRINE OF THE MEANPROLEGOMENA.CHAPTER I.OF THE CHINESE CLASSICS GENERALLY.SECTION I.BOOKS INCLUDED UNDER THE NAME OF THE CHINESE CLASSICS.	1. The Books now recognised as of highest authority in Chinaare comprehended under the denominations of 'The five Ching [1]'and 'The four Shu [2].'  The term Ching is of textile origin, andsignifies the warp threads of a web, and their adjustment. Aneasy application of it is to denote what is regular and insuresregularity. As used with reference to books, it indicates theirauthority on the subjects of which they treat. 'The five Ching' arethe five canonical Works, containing the truth upon the highestsubjects from the sages of China, and which should be received aslaw by all generations. The term Shu simply means Writings orBooks, = the Pencil Speaking; it may be used of a single character,or of books containing thousands of characters.	2. 'The five Ching' are: the Yi [3], or, as it has been styled,'The Book of Changes;' the Shu [4], or 'The Book of History;' theShih [5], or 'The Book of Poetry;' the Li Chi [6], or 'Record of Rites;'and the Ch'un Ch'iu [7], or 'Spring and Autumn,' a chronicle ofevents, extending from 722 to 481 B.C. The authorship, orcompilation rather, of all these Works is loosely attributed toConfucius. But much of the Li Chi is from later hands. Of the Yi,the Shu, and the Shih, it is only in the first that we find additionsattributed to the philosopher himself, in the shape of appendixes.The Ch'un Ch'iu is the only one of the five Ching which can, withan approximation to correctness, be described as of his own'making.'1 ???g.2 ?|??.3 ???g.4 ??g.5 ??g.6 ?O.7 ?K??.	'The Four Books' is an abbreviation for 'The Books of theFour Philosophers [1].' The first is the Lun Yu [2], or 'DigestedConversations,' being occupied chiefly with the sayings ofConfucius. He is the philosopher to whom it belongs. It appears inthis Work under the title of 'Confucian Analects.' The second isthe Ta Hsio [3], or 'Great Learning,' now commonly attributed toTsang Shan [4], a disciple of the sage.  He is he philosopher of it.The third is the Chung Yung [5], or 'Doctrine of the Mean,' as thename has often been translated, though it would be better torender it, as in the present edition, by 'The State of Equilibriumand Harmony.' Its composition is ascribed to K'ung Chi [6], thegrandson of Confucius. He is the philosopher of it.  The fourthcontains the works of Mencius.	3. This arrangement of the Classical Books, which iscommonly supposed to have originated with the scholars of theSung dynasty, is defective. The Great Learning and the Doctrine ofthe Mean are both found in the Record of Rites, being the thirty-ninth and twenty-eighth Books respectively of that compilation,according to the best arrangement of it.	4. The oldest enumerations of the Classical Books specifyonly the five Ching. The Yo Chi, or 'Record of Music [7],' theremains of which now form one of the Books in the Li Chi, wassometimes added to those, making with them the six Ching. Adivision was also made into nine Ching, consisting of the Yi, theShih, the Shu, the Chau Li [8], or 'Ritual of Chau,' the I Li [9], orcertain 'Ceremonial Usages,' the Li Chi, and the annotated editionsof the Ch'un Ch'iu [10], by Tso Ch'iu-ming [11], Kung-yang Kao [12],and Ku-liang Ch'ih [13]. In the famous compilation of the ClassicalBooks, undertaken by order of T'ai-tsung, the second emperor ofthe T'ang dynasty (A.D. 627-649), and which appeared in the reignof his successor, there are thirteen Ching, viz. the Yi, the Shih,the Shu, the three editions of the Ch'un Ch'iu, the Li Chi, the ChauLi, the I Li, the Confucian Analects, the R Ya [14], a sort ofancient dictionary, the Hsiao Ching [15], or 'Classic of FilialPiety,' and the works of Mencius.	5. A distinction, however, was made among the Works thus1 ?|?l????.2 ??y.3 ?j??.4 ????.5 ???e.6 ???.7 ??O.8 ?P.9 ??.10 ?K??T??11 ???C??.12 ?????.13 ?\??.14 ????.15 ???g.comprehended under the same common name; and Mencius, the LunYu, the Ta Hsio, the Chung Yung, and the Hsiao Ching were spokenof as the Hsiao Ching, or 'Smaller Classics.' It thus appears,contrary to the ordinary opinion on the subject, that the Ta Hsioand Chung Yung had been published as separate treatises beforethe Sung dynasty, and that Four Books, as distinguished from thegreater Ching, had also previously found a place in the literatureof China [1].SECTION II.THE AUTHORITY OF THE CHINESE CLASSICS.	1. This subject will be discussed in connexion with eachseparate Work, and it is only designed here to exhibit generallythe evidence on which the Chinese Classics claim to be receivedas genuine productions of the time to which they are referred.	2. In the memoirs of the Former Han dynasty (B.C. 202-A.D.24), we have one chapter which we may call the History ofLiterature [2]. It commences thus: 'After the death of Confucius[3], there was an end of his exquisite words; and when his seventydisciples had passed away, violence began to be done to theirmeaning. It came about that there were five different editions ofthe Ch'un Ch'iu, four of the Shih, and several of the Yi. Amid thedisorder and collisions of the warring States (B.C. 481-220),truth and falsehood were still more in a state of warfare, and asad confusion marked the words of the various scholars. Thencame the calamity inflicted under the Ch'in dynasty (B.C. 220-205), when the literary monuments were destroyed by fire, inorder to keep the people in ignorance. But, by and by, there arosethe Han dynasty, which set itself to remedy the evil wrought bythe Ch'in. Great efforts were made to collect slips and tablets [4],and the way was thrown wide open for the bringing in of Books. Inthe time of the emperor Hsiao-wu [5] (B.C. 140-85), portions ofBooks being wanting and tablets lost, so that ceremonies andmusic were1 For the statements in the two last paragraphs, see ??e?X??, ?j?????, ???@.2 ?e?~??, ????, ??Q??, ?????.3 ??.4 ?g?y, slips and tablets of bamboo, which supplied in those daysthe place of paper.5 ?@????Z???.suffering great damage, he was moved to sorrow and said, "I amvery sad for this." He therefore formed the plan of Repositories,in which the Books might be stored, and appointed officers totranscribe Books on an extensive scale, embracing the works ofthe various scholars, that they might all be placed in theRepositories. The emperor Ch'ang (B.C. 32-5), finding that aportion of the Books still continued dispersed or missing,commissioned Ch'an Nang, the Superintendent of Guests [2], tosearch for undiscovered Books throughout the empire, and byspecial edict ordered the chief of the Banqueting House, LiuHsiang [3], to examine the Classical Works, along with thecommentaries on them, the writings of the scholars, and allpoetical productions; the Master-controller of Infantry, ZanHwang [4], to examine the Books on the art of war; the GrandHistoriographer, Yin Hsien [5], to examine the Books treating ofthe art of numbers (i.e. divination); and the imperial Physician, LiChu-kwo [6], to examine the Books on medicine. Whenever anybook was done with, Hsiang forthwith arranged it, indexed it, andmade a digest of it, which was presented to the emperor. Whilethis work was in progress, Hsiang died, and the emperor Ai (B.C.6-A.D. 1) appointed his son, Hsin [7], a Master of the imperialcarriages, to complete his father's work. On this, Hsin collectedall the Books, and presented a report of them, under sevendivisions.'	The first of these divisions seems to have been a generalcatalogue [8] containing perhaps only the titles of the worksincluded in the other six. The second embraced the ClassicalWorks [9]. From the abstract of it, which is preserved in thechapter referred to, we find that there were 294 collections ofthe Yi-ching from thirteen different individuals or editors [10];412 collections of the Shu-ching, from nine different individuals;416 volumes of the Shih-ching, from six different individuals[11]; of the Books of Rites, 555 collec-1 ???????.2 ?????A.3 ???S?j??B?V.4 ?B?L???????.5 ??v?O???w.6 ????????.7 ????^????????.8 ??.9 ??????.10 ?Z??, ?Q?T?a, ?G??E?Q?|?g. How much of the whole work wascontained in each ?g, it is impossible to determine. P. Regis says:'Pien, quemadmodum Gallice dicimus "des pieces d'eloquence, depoesie."'11 ??, ???a, ?|??@?Q????. The collections of the Shih-ching arementioned under the name of chuan, 'sections,' 'portions.' Had p'ienbeen used, it might have been understood of individual odes. Thischange of terms shows that by p'ien in the other summaries, weare not to understand single blocks or chapters.tions, from thirteen different individuals; of the Books on Music,165 collections, from six different editors; 948 collections ofHistory, under the heading of the Ch'un Ch'iu, from twenty-threedifferent individuals; 229 collections of the Lun Yu, including theAnalects and kindred fragments, from twelve differentindividuals; of the Hsiao-ching, embracing also the R Ya, and someother portions of the ancient literature, 59 collections, fromeleven different individuals; and finally of the lesser Learning,being works on the form of the characters, 45 collections, fromeleven different individuals. The works of Mencius were includedin the second division [1], among the writings of what weredeemed orthodox scholars [2], of which there were 836collections, from fifty-three different individuals.	3. The above important document is sufficient to show howthe emperors of the Han dynasty, as soon as they had made goodtheir possession of the empire, turned their attention to recoverthe ancient literature of the nation, the Classical Books engagingtheir first care, and how earnestly and effectively the scholars ofthe time responded to the wishes of their rulers. In addition tothe facts specified in the preface to it, I may relate that theordinance of the Ch'in dynasty against possessing the ClassicalBooks (with the exception, as it will appear in its proper place, ofthe Yi-ching) was repealed by the second sovereign of the Han, theemperor Hsiao Hui [3], in the fourth year of his reign, B.C. 191, andthat a large portion of the Shu-ching was recovered in the time ofthe third emperor, B.C. 179-157, while in the year B.C. 136 aspecial Board was constituted, consisting of literati, who wereput in charge of the five Ching [4].	4. The collections reported on by Liu Hsin suffered damagein the troubles which began A.D. 8, and continued till the rise ofthe second or eastern Han dynasty in the year 25. The founder ofit (A.D. 25-57) zealously promoted the undertaking of hispredecessors, and additional repositories were required for theBooks which were collected. His successors, the emperors Hsiao-ming [5] (58-75), Hsiao-chang [6] (76-88), and Hsiao-hwo [7] (89-105), took a part themselves in the studies and discussions of theliterary tribunal, and1 ??l??.2 ???a??y.3 ???f???.4 ?Z???????~, ??m???g??h.5 ??v???????.6 ?v???????.7 ???M???.the emperor Hsiao-ling [1], between the years 172-178, had thetext of the five Ching, as it had been fixed, cut in slabs of stone,and set up in the capital outside the gate of the Grand College.Some old accounts say that the characters were in three differentforms, but they were only in one form; -- see the 287th book ofChu I-tsun's great Work.	5. Since the Han, the successive dynasties have consideredthe literary monuments of the country to be an object of theirspecial care. Many of them have issued editions of the Classics,embodying the commentaries of preceding generations. No dynastyhas distinguished itself more in this line than the presentManchau possessors of the empire. In fine, the evidence iscomplete that the Classical Books of China have come down fromat least a century before our Christian era, substantially thesame as we have them at present.	6. But it still remains to inquire in what condition we maysuppose the Books were, when the scholars of the Han dynastycommenced their labors upon them. They acknowledge that thetablets -- we cannot here speak of manuscripts -- weremutilated and in disorder. Was the injury which they had receivedof such an extent that all the care and study put forth on thesmall remains would be of little use? This question can beanswered satisfactorily, only by an examination of the evidencewhich is adduced for the text of each particular Classic; but itcan be made apparent that there is nothing, in the nature of thecase, to interfere with our believing that the materials weresufficient to enable the scholars to execute the work intrusted tothem.	7 The burning of the ancient Books by order of the founderof the Ch'in dynasty is always referred to as the greatestdisaster which they sustained, and with this is coupled theslaughter of many of the Literati by the same monarch.	The account which we have of these transactions in theHistorical Records is the following [2]:	'In his 34th year [the 34th year, that is, after he hadascended the throne of Ch'in. It was only the 9th year after he hadbeen acknowledged Sovereign of the empire, coinciding with B.C.213], the emperor, returning from a visit to the south, which hadextended1 ???F???.2 I have thought it well to endeavour to translate the whole ofthe passages. Father de Mailla merely constructs from them anarrative of his own; see L'Histoire Generale de La China, tome ii.pp. 399-402. The ?q????? avoids the difficulties of the original bygiving an abridgment of it.as far as Yueh, gave a feast in his palace at Hsien-yang, when theGreat Scholars, amounting to seventy men, appeared and wishedhim a long life [1]. One of the principal ministers, Chau Ch'ing-ch'an [2], came forward and said, "Formerly, the State of Ch'inwas only 1000 li in extent, but Your Majesty, by your spirit-likeefficacy and intelligent wisdom, has tranquillized and settled thewhole empire, and driven away all barbarous tribes, so that,wherever the sun and moon shine, all rulers appear before you asguests acknowledging subjection. You have formed the states ofthe various princes into provinces and districts, where the peopleenjoy a happy tranquillity, suffering no more from the calamitiesof war and contention. This condition of things will betransmitted for 10,000 generations. From the highest antiquitythere has been no one in awful virtue like Your Majesty."	'The emperor was pleased with this flattery, when Shun-yuYueh [3], one of the Great Scholars, a native of Ch'i, advanced andsaid, "The sovereigns of Yin and Chau, for more than a thousandyears, invested their sons and younger brothers, and meritoriousministers, with domains and rule, and could thus depend uponthem for support and aid;-- that I have heard. But now YourMajesty is in possession of all within the seas, and your sons andyounger brothers are nothing but private individuals. The issuewill be that some one will arise to play the part of T'ien Ch'ang[4], or of the six nobles of Tsin. Without the support of your ownfamily, where will you find the aid which you may require? That astate of things not modelled from the lessons of antiquity canlong continue;-- that is what I have not heard. Ch'ing is nowshowing himself to be a flatterer, who increases the errors ofYour Majesty, and not a loyal minister."	'The emperor requested the opinions of others on thisrepresentation, and the premier, Li Sze [5], said, "The fiveemperors were not one the double of the other, nor did the threedynasties accept one another's ways. Each had a peculiar systemof government, not for the sake of the contrariety, but as beingrequired by the changed times. Now, Your Majesty has laid thefoundations of1 ??h?C?Q?H?e????. The ??h were not only 'great scholars,' but hadan official rank. There was what we may call a college of them,consisting of seventy members.2 ???g, ?P?C??.3 ?E?_?V.4 ??`. -- ?` should probably be ??, as it is given in the T'ungChien. See Analects XIV. xxii. T'ien Hang was the same as Ch'anCh'ang of that chapter.5 ??????imperial sway, so that it will last for 10,000 generations. This isindeed beyond what a stupid scholar can understand. And,moreover, Yueh only talks of things belonging to the ThreeDynasties, which are not fit to be models to you. At other times,when the princes were all striving together, they endeavoured togather the wandering scholars about them; but now, the empire isin a stable condition, and laws and ordinances issue from onesupreme authority. Let those of the people who abide in theirhomes give their strength to the toils of husbandry, while thosewho become scholars should study the various laws andprohibitions. Instead of doing this, however, the scholars do notlearn what belongs to the present day, but study antiquity. Theygo on to condemn the present time, leading the masses of thepeople astray, and to disorder.	'"At the risk of my life, I, the prime minister, say: Formerly,when the nation was disunited and disturbed, there was no onewho could give unity to it. The princes therefore stood uptogether; constant references were made to antiquity to theinjury of the present state; baseless statements were dressed upto confound what was real, and men made a boast of their ownpeculiar learning to condemn what their rulers appointed. Andnow, when Your Majesty has consolidated the empire, and,distinguishing black from white, has constituted it a stable unity,they still honour their peculiar learning, and combine together;they teach men what is contrary to your laws. When they hearthat an ordinance has been issued, every one sets to discussing itwith his learning. In the court, they are dissatisfied in heart; outof it, they keep talking in the streets. While they make a pretenseof vaunting their Master, they consider it fine to haveextraordinary views of their own. And so they lead on the peopleto be guilty of murmuring and evil speaking. If these things arenot prohibited, Your Majesty's authority will decline, and partieswill be formed. The best way is to prohibit them, I pray that allthe Records in charge of the Historiographers be burned,excepting those of Ch'in; that, with the exception of thoseofficers belonging to the Board of Great Scholars, all throughoutthe empire who presume to keep copies of the Shih-ching, or ofthe Shu-ching, or of the books of the Hundred Schools, be requiredto go with them to the officers in charge of the several districts,and burn them [1]; that all who may dare to speak1 ?x??u?L???N??.together about the Shih and the Shu be put to death, and theirbodies exposed in the market-place; that those who make mentionof the past, so as to blame the present, be put to death along withtheir relatives; that officers who shall know of the violation ofthose rules and not inform against the offenders, be held equallyguilty with them; and that whoever shall not have burned theirBooks within thirty days after the issuing of the ordinance, bebranded and sent to labor on the wall for four years.  The onlyBooks which should be spared are those on medicine, divination,and husbandry. Whoever wants to learn the laws may go to themagistrates and learn of them."	'The imperial decision was -- "Approved."'	The destruction of the scholars is related more briefly. Inthe year after the burning of the Books, the resentment of theemperor was excited by the remarks and the flight of twoscholars who had been favourites with him, and he determined toinstitute a strict inquiry about all of their class in Hsien-yang, tofind out whether they had been making ominous speeches abouthim, and disturbing the minds of the people. The investigationwas committed to the Censors [1], and it being discovered thatupwards of 460 scholars had violated the prohibitions, they wereall buried alive in pits [2], for a warning to the empire, whiledegradation and banishment were employed more strictly thanbefore against all who fell under suspicion. The emperor's eldestson, Fu-su, remonstrated with him, saying that such measuresagainst those who repeated the words of Confucius and sought toimitate him, would alienate all the people from their infantdynasty, but his interference offended him father so much that hewas sent off from court, to be with the general who wassuperintending the building of the great wall.	8. No attempts have been made by Chinese critics andhistorians to discredit the record of these events, though somehave questioned the extent of the injury inflicted by them on themonuments of their ancient literature [3]. It is important toobserve that the edict against the Books did not extend to the Yi-ching, which was1 ?s?v?x?????, ?????i??.2 ?????T??, ?|????l?H, ????w??. The meaning of this passage asa whole is sufficiently plain, but I am unable to make out theforce of the phrase ???.3 See the remarks of Chamg Chia-tsi (????G??), of the Sungdynasty, on the subject, in the ???m?q??, Bk. clxxiv. p. 5.exempted as being a work on divination, nor did it extend to theother classics which were in charge of the Board of GreatScholars. There ought to have been no difficulty in finding copieswhen the Han dynasty superseded that of the Ch'in, and probablythere would have been none but for the sack of the capital in B.C.206 by Hsiang Yu, the formidable opponent of the founder of theHouse of Han. Then, we are told, the fires blazed for three monthsamong the palaces and public buildings, and must have proved asdestructive to the copies of the Great Scholars as the edict of thetyrant had been to the copies among the people.	It is to be noted also that the life of Shih Hwang Ti lastedonly three years after the promulgation of his edict. He died inB.C. 210, and the reign of his second son who succeeded himlasted only other three years. A brief period of disorder andstruggling for the supreme authority between different chiefsensured; but the reign of the founder of the Han dynasty datesfrom B.C. 202. Thus, eleven years were all which intervenedbetween the order for the burning of the Books and rise of thatfamily, which signaled itself by the care which it bestowed fortheir recovery; and from the edict of the tyrant of Ch'in againstprivate individuals having copies in their keeping, to its expressabrogation by the emperor Hsiao Hui, there were only twenty-twoyears. We may believe, indeed, that vigorous efforts to carry theedict into effect would not be continued longer than the life ofits author,-- that is, not for more than about three years. Thecalamity inflicted upon the ancient Books of China by the House ofCh'in could not have approached to anything like a completedestruction of them. There would be no occasion for the scholarsof the Han dynasty, in regard to the bulk of their ancientliterature, to undertake more than the work of recension andediting.	9. The idea of forgery by them on a large scale is out of thequestion. The catalogues of Liang Hsin enumerated more than13,000 volumes of a larger or smaller size, the productions ofnearly 600 different writers, and arranged in thirty-eightsubdivisions of subjects [1]. In the third catalogue, the firstsubdivision contained the orthodox writers [2], to the number offifty-three, with 836 Works or portions of their Works. BetweenMencius and1 ?Z?????, ?T?Q?K??, ????E?Q???a, ?U?T?d?G????E??.2 ???a??y.K'ung Chi, the grandson of Confucius, eight different authors haveplace. The second subdivision contained the Works of the Taoistschool [1], amounting to 993 collections, from thirty-sevendifferent authors. The sixth subdivision contained the Mohistwriters [2], to the number of six, with their productions in 86collections. I specify these two subdivisions, because theyembrace the Works of schools or sects antagonistic to that ofConfucius, and some of them still hold a place in Chineseliterature, and contain many references to the five Classics, andto Confucius and his disciples.	10. The inquiry pursued in the above paragraphs conducts usto the conclusion that the materials from which the classics, asthey have come down to us, were compiled and edited in the twocenturies preceding our Christian era, were genuine remains,going back to a still more remote period. The injury which theysustained from the dynasty of Ch'in was, I believe, the same incharacter as that to which they were exposed during all the timeof 'the Warring States.' It may have been more intense in degree,but the constant warfare which prevailed for some centuriesamong the different states which composed the kingdom waseminently unfavourable to the cultivation of literature. Menciustells us how the princes had made away with many of the recordsof antiquity, from which their own usurpations and innovationsmight have been condemned [3]. Still the times were notunfruitful, either in scholars or statesmen, to whom the ways andmonuments of antiquity were dear, and the space from the rise ofthe Ch'in dynasty to the death of Confucius was not very great. Itonly amounted to 258 years. Between these two periods Menciusstands as a connecting link. Born probably in the year B.C. 371, hereached, by the intervention of Kung Chi, back to the sage himself,and as his death happened B.C. 288, we are brought down to withinnearly half a century of the Ch'in dynasty. From all theseconsiderations we may proceed with confidence to consider eachseparate Work, believing that we have in these Classics and Bookswhat the great sage of China and his disciples gave to theircountry more than 2000 years ago.1 ?D?a??y.2 ???a??y.3 See Mencius, V. Pt. II. ii. 2.CHAPTER II.OF THE CONFUCIAN ANALECTS.SECTION I.FORMATION OF THE TEXT OF THE ANALECTS BY THE SCHOLARS OFTHE HAN DYNASTY.	1. When the work of collecting and editing the remains ofthe Classical Books was undertaken by the scholars of Han, thereappeared two different copies of the Analects, one from Lu, thenative State of Confucius, and the other from Ch'i, the Stateadjoining. Between these there were considerable differences.The former consisted of twenty Books or Chapters, the same asthose into which the Classic is now divided. The latter containedtwo Books in addition, and in the twenty Books, which they had incommon, the chapters and sentences were somewhat morenumerous than in the Lu exemplar.	2. The names of several individuals are given, who devotedthemselves to the study of those two copies of the Classic.Among the patrons of the Lu copy are mentioned the names ofHsia-hau Shang, grand-tutor of the heir-apparent, who died at theage of 90, and in the reign of the emperor Hsuan (B.C. 73-49) [1];Hsiao Wang-chih [2], a general-officer, who died in the reign ofthe emperor Yuan (B.C. 48-33); Wei Hsien, who was a premier ofthe empire from B.C. 70-66; and his son Hsuan-ch'ang [3]. Aspatrons of the Ch'i copy, we have Wang Ch'ing, who was a censorin the year B.C. 99 [4]; Yung Shang [5]; and Wang Chi [6], astatesman who died in the beginning of the reign of the emperorYuan.	3. But a third copy of the Analects was discovered about B.C.150. One of the sons of the emperor Ching was appointed king ofLu [7] in the year B.C. 154, and some time after, wishing toenlarge his palace, he proceeded to pull down the house of theK'ung family, known as that where Confucius himself had lived.1 ??l?j??L?J??.2 ?e?N?x, ????.3 ???, ????, ??l, ???.4 ????.5 ?e??.6 ???L???N.7 ?|???@ (or ??).While doing so, there were found in the wall copies of the Shu-ching, the Ch'un Ch'iu, the Hsiao-ching, and the Lun Yu or Analects,which had been deposited there, when the edict for the burning ofthe Books was issued. There were all written, however, in themost ancient form of the Chinese character [1], which had falleninto disuse, and the king returned them to the K'ung family, thehead of which, K'ung An-kwo [2], gave himself to the study ofthem, and finally, in obedience to an imperial order, published aWork called "The Lun Yu, with Explanations of the Characters, andExhibition of the Meaning [3].'	4. The recovery of this copy will be seen to be a mostimportant circumstance in the history f the text of the Analects.It is referred to by Chinese writers, as 'The old Lun Yu.' In thehistorical narrative which we have of the affair, a circumstanceis added which may appear to some minds to throw suspicion onthe whole account. The king was finally arrested, we are told, inhis purpose to destroy the house, by hearing the sounds of bells,musical stones, lutes, and citherns, as he was ascending thesteps that led to the ancestral hall or temple. This incident wascontrived, we may suppose, by the K'ung family, to preserve thehouse, or it may have been devised by the historian to glorify thesage, but we may not, on account of it, discredit the finding ofthe ancient copies of the Books. We have K'ung An-kwo's ownaccount of their being committed to him, and of the ways whichhe took to decipher them. The work upon the Analects, mentionedabove, has not indeed come down to us, but his labors on the Shu-ching still remain.	5. It has been already stated, that the Lun Yu of Ch'icontained two Books more than that of Lu. In this respect, the oldLun Yu agreed with the Lu exemplar. Those two books werewanting in it as well. The last book of the Lu Lun was divided init, however, into two, the chapter beginning, 'Yao said,' forming awhole Book by itself, and the remaining two chapters formedanother Book beginning 'Tsze-chang.' With this trifling difference,the old and the Lu copies appear to have agreed together.	6 Chang Yu, prince of An-ch'ang [4], who died B.C. 4, afterhaving1 ????l, -- lit. 'tadpole  characters.' They were, it is said, theoriginal forms devised by Ts'ang-chieh, with large heads and finetails, like the creature from which they were named. See thenotes to the preface to the Shu-ching in 'The Thirteen Classics.'2 ??w??.3 ??y?V??. See the preface to the Lun Yu in 'The Thirteen Ching.' Ithas been my principal authority in this section.4 ?w???J, ?i??.sustained several of the highest offices of the empire, instituteda comparison between the exemplars of Lu and Ch'i, with a viewto determine the true text. The result of his labors appeared intwenty-one Books, which are mentioned in Liu Hsin's catalogue.They were known as the Lun of prince Chang [1], and commandedgeneral approbation. To Chang Yu is commonly ascribed theejecting from the Classic the two additional books which the Ch'iexemplar contained, but Ma Twan-lin prefers to rest thatcircumstance on the authority of the old Lun, which we have seenwas without them [2]. If we had the two Books, we might findsufficient reason from their contents to discredit them. That mayhave been sufficient for Chang Yu to condemn them as he did, butwe can hardly supposed that he did not have before him the oldLun, which had come to light about a century before he publishedhis work.	7. In the course of the second century, a new edition of theAnalects, with a commentary, was published by one of thegreatest scholars which China has ever produced, Chang Hsuan,known also as Chang K'ang-ch'ang [3]. He died in the reign of theemperor Hsien (A.D. 190-220) [4] at the age of 74, and the amountof his labors on the ancient classical literature is almostincredible. While he adopted the Lu Lun as the received text of histime, he compared it minutely with those of Ch'i and the oldexemplar. In the last section f this chapter will be found a list ofthe readings in his commentary different from those which arenow acknowledged in deference to the authority of Chu Hsi, of theSung dynasty. They are not many, and their importance is buttrifling.	8. On the whole, the above statements will satisfy thereader of the care with which the text of the Lun Yu was fixedduring the dynasty of Han.SECTION II.AT WHAT TIME, AND BY WHOM, THE ANALECTS WERE WRITTEN;THEIR PLAN; AND AUTHENTICITY.	1. At the commencement of the notes upon the first Book,under the heading, 'The Title of the Work,' I have given thereceived account of its authorship, which precedes the catalogue1 ?i?J??.2 ???m?q??, Bk. clxxxiv. p. 3.3 ?G??, ?r?d??.4 ???m???.of Liu Hsin. According to that, the Analects were compiled by thedisciples if Confucius coming together after his death, anddigesting the memorials of his discourses and conversationswhich they had severally preserved. But this cannot be true. Wemay believe, indeed, that many of the disciples put on recordconversations which they had had with their master, and notesabout his manners and incidents of his life, and that these havebeen incorporated with the Work which we have, but that Workmust have taken its present form at a period somewhat later.	In Book VIII, chapters iii iv, we have some notices of thelast days of Tsang Shan, and are told that he was visited on hisdeath-bed by the officer Mang Ching. Now Ching was theposthumous title of Chung-sun Chieh [1], and we find him alive (LiChi, II. Pt. ii. 2) after the death of duke Tao of Lu [2], which tookplace B.C. 431, about fifty years after the death of Confucius.	Again, Book XIX is all occupied with the sayings of thedisciples. Confucius personally does not appear in it. Parts of it,as chapters iii, xii, and xviii, carry us down to a time when thedisciples had schools and followers of their own, and wereaccustomed to sustain their teachings by referring to the lessonswhich they had learned from the sage.	Thirdly, there is the second chapter of Book XI, the secondparagraph of which is evidently a note by the compilers of theWork, enumerating ten of the principal disciples, and classifyingthem according to their distinguishing characteristics. We canhardly suppose it to have been written while any of the ten werealive. But there is among them the name of Tsze-hsia, who livedto the age of about a hundred. We find him, B.C. 407, three-quarters of a century after the death of Confucius, at the court ofWei, to the prince of which he is reported to have presented someof the Classical Books [3].	2. We cannot therefore accept the above account of theorigin of the Analects,-- that they were compiled by the disciplesof Confucius. Much more likely is the view that we owe the workto their disciples. In the note on I. ii. I, a peculiarity is pointedout in the use of the surnames of Yew Zo and Tsang Shan, which1 See Chu Hsi's commentary, in loc. -- ?s?q?l, ?|?j??, ??]??, ?W??.2 ????.3 ???Q?????g??R?l?L; see the ?d?N?????, Bk. i. p. 77.has made some Chinese critics attribute the compilation to theirfollowers. But this conclusion does not stand investigation.Others have assigned different portions to different schools.Thus, Book V is given to the disciples of Tsze-kung; Book XI, tothose of Min Tsze-ch'ien; Book XIV, to Yuan Hsien; and Book XVIhas been supposed to be interpolated from the Analects of Ch'i.Even if we were to acquiesce in these decisions, we should haveaccounted only for a small part of the Work. It is best to rest inthe general conclusion, that it was compiled by the disciples ofthe disciples of the sage, making free use of the writtenmemorials concerning him which they had received, and the oralstatements which they had heard, from their several masters.And we shall not be far wrong, if we determine its date as aboutthe end of the fourth, or the beginning of the fifth century beforeChrist.	3. In the critical work on the Four Books, called 'Record ofRemarks in the village of Yung [1],' it is observed, 'The Analects,in my opinion, were made by the disciples, just like a record ofremarks. There they were recorded, and afterwards came a first-rate hand, who gave them the beautiful literary finish which wenow witness, so that there is not a character which does not haveits own indispensable place [2].' We have seen that the first ofthese statements contains only a small amount of truth withregard to the materials of the Analects, nor can we receive thesecond. If one hand or one mind had digested the materialsprovided by many, the arrangement and the style of the workwould have been different. We should not have had the sameremark appearing in several Books, with little variation, andsometimes with none at all. Nor can we account on thissupposition for such fragments as the last chapters of the ninth,tenth, and sixteenth Books, and many others. No definite plan hasbeen kept in view throughout. A degree of unity appears to belongto some books more than others, and in general to the first tenmore than to those which follow, but there is no progress ofthought or illustration of subject from Book to Book. And even inthose where the chapters have1 ?_???y??,-- ?_??, 'the village of Yung,' is, I conceive, the writer'snom de plume.2 ??y?Q?O????l, ?p?y???@??, ?O?b????, ?????@????, ????z?o???, ?U?r?L?@????.a common subject, they are thrown together at random more thanon any plan.	4. We cannot tell when the Work was first called the Lun Yu[1]. The evidence in the preceding section is sufficient to provethat when the Han scholars were engaged in collecting the ancientBooks, it came before them, not in broken tablets, but complete,and arranged in Books or Sections, as we now have it. The Oldcopy was found deposited in the wall of the house whichConfucius had occupied, and must have been placed there not laterthan B.C. 211, distant from the date which I have assigned to thecompilation, not much more than a century and a half. That copy,written in the most ancient characters, was, possibly, theautograph of the compilers.	We have the Writings, or portions of the Writings, ofseveral authors of the third and fourth centuries before Christ. Ofthese, in addition to 'The Great Learning,' 'The Doctrine of theMean,' and 'The Works of Mencius,' I have looked over the Works ofHsun Ch'ing [2] of the orthodox school, of the philosophers Chwangand Lieh of the Taoist school [3], and of the heresiarch Mo [4].	In the Great Learning, Commentary, chapter iv, we have thewords of Ana. XII. xiii. In the Doctrine of the Mean, ch. iii, we haveAna. VI. xxvii; and in ch. xxviii. 5, we have substantially Ana. III.ix. In Mencius, II. Pt. I. ii. 19, we have Ana. VII. xxxiii, and in vii. 2,Ana. IV. i; in III. Pt. I. iv. 11, Ana. VIII. xviii, xix; in IV. Pt. I. xiv. 1,Ana. XI. xvi. 2; in V. Pt. II. vii. 9, Ana. X. xiii. 4; and in VII. Pt. II.xxxvii. 1, 2, 8, Ana. V. xxi, XIII. xxi, and XVII. xiii. Thesequotations, however, are introduced by 'The Master said,' or'Confucius said,' no mention being made of any book called 'TheLun Yu,' or Analects. In the Great Learning, Commentary, x. 15, wehave the words of Ana. IV. iii, and in1 In the continuation of the 'General Examination of Records andScholars (????m?q??),' Bk. cxcviii. p. 17, it is said, indeed, on theauthority of Wang Ch'ung (???R), a scholar of our first century,that when the Work came out of the wall it was named a Chwan orRecord (??), and that it was when K'ung An-kwo instructed anative of Tsin, named Fu-ch'ing, in it, that it first got the name ofLun Yu:-- ?Z??o??y?_?????, ??W???, ??w??H?j????H???, ?l???y. If it were so, it is strange the circumstance is not mentionedin Ho Yen's preface.2 ????.3 ???l, ?C?l.4 ???l.Mencius, III. Pt. II. vii. 3, those of Ana. XVII. i, but without anynotice of quotation.	In the writings of Hsun Ch'ing, Book I. page 2, we findsomething like the words of Ana. XV. xxx; and on p. 6, part of XIV.xxv. But in these instances there is no mark of quotation.	In the writings of Chwang, I have noted only one passagewhere the words of the Analects are reproduced. Ana. XVIII. v isfound, but with large additions, and no reference of quotation, inhis treatise on 'Man in the World, associated with other Men [1].'In all those Works, as well as in those of Lieh and Mo, thereferences to Confucius and his disciples, and to manycircumstances of his life, are numerous [2]. The quotations ofsayings of his not found in the Analects are likewise many,especially in the Doctrine of the Mean, in Mencius, and in theWorks of Chwang. Those in the latter are mostly burlesques, butthose by the orthodox writers have more or less of classicalauthority. Some of them may be found in the Chia Yu [3], or'Narratives of the School,' and in parts of the Li Chi, while othersare only known to us by their occurrence in these Writings.Altogether, they do not supply the evidence, for which I am inquest, of the existence of the Analects as a distinct Work,bearing the name of the Lun Yu, prior to the Ch'in dynasty. Theyleave the presumption, however, in favour of those conclusions,which arises from the facts stated in the first section,undisturbed. They confirm it rather. They show that there wasabundance of materials at hand to the scholars of Han, to compilea much larger Work with the same title, if they had felt it theirduty to do the business of compilation, and not that of editing.SECTION III.OF COMMENTARIES UPON THE ANALECTS.	1. It would be a vast and unprofitable labor to attempt togive a list of the Commentaries which have been published on thisWork. My object is merely to point out how zealously the businessof interpretation was undertaken, as soon as the text had been1 ?H???@.2 In Mo's chapter against the Literati, he mentions some of thecharacteristics of Confucius in the very words of the Tenth Bookof the Analects.3 ?a?y.recovered by the scholars of the Han dynasty, and with whatindustry it has been persevered in down to the present time.	2. Mention has been made, in Section I. 6, of the Lun ofprince Chang, published in the half century before our era. PaoHsien [1], a distinguished scholar and officer, f the reign ofKwang-wu [2], the first emperor of the Eastern Han dynasty, A.D.25-57, and another scholar of the surname Chau [3], less knownbut of the same time, published Works, containing arrangementsof this in chapters and sentences, with explanatory notes. Thecritical work of K'ung An-kwo on the old Lun Yu has been referredto. That was lost in consequence of suspicions under which An-kwo fell towards the close of the reign of the emperor Wu, but inthe time of the emperor Shun, A.D. 126-144, another scholar, MaYung [4], undertook the exposition of the characters in the old Lun,giving at the same time his views of the general meaning. Thelabors of Chang Hsuan in the second century have been mentioned.Not long after his death, there ensued a period of anarchy, whenthe empire was divided into three governments, well known fromthe celebrated historical romance, called 'The Three Kingdoms.'The strongest of them, the House of Wei, patronized literature,and three of its high officers and scholars, Ch'an Ch'un, Wang Su,and Chau Shang-lieh [5], in the first half, and probably the secondquarter, of the third century, all gave to the world their notes onthe Analects.	Very shortly after, five of the great ministers of theGovernment of Wei, Sun Yung, Chang Ch'ung, Tsao Hsi, Hsun K'ai,and Ho Yen [6], united in the production of one great Work,entitled, 'A Collection of Explanations of the Lun Yu [7].' Itembodied the labors of all the writers which have beenmentioned, and, having been frequently reprinted by succeedingdynasties, it still remains. The preface of the five compilers, inthe form of a memorial to the emperor, so called, of the House ofWei, is published with it, and has been of much assistance to mein writing these sections. Ho1 ?]?w.2 ???Z.3 ?P??.4 ??????, ?n?p??u, ????, ?????V??.5 ?q?A, ???s; ??`, ????; ??h, ?P??C.6 ???S?j??, ?????J, ?]?o; ???S?j??, ?G?R; ???M?`??, ????x, ?w?m?F?J, ??; ???, ???; ?|??, ?t?????L, ?????J, ???.7 ??y????. I possess a copy of this work, printed about the middleof our fourteenth century.Yen was the leader among them, and the work is commonly quotedas if it were the production of him alone.	3. From Ho Yen downwards, there has hardly been a dynastywhich has not contributed its laborers to the illustration of theAnalects. In the Liang, which occupied the throne a good part ofthe sixth century, there appeared the 'Comments of Hwang K'an[1],' who to the seven authorities cited by Ho Yen added otherthirteen, being scholars who had deserved well of the Classicduring the intermediate time. Passing over other dynasties, wecome to the Sung, A.D. 960-1279. An edition of the Classics waspublished by imperial authority, about the beginning of theeleventh century, with the title of 'The Correct Meaning.' Theprincipal scholar engaged in the undertaking was Hsing P'ing [2].The portion of it on the Analects [3] is commonly reprinted in 'TheThirteen Classics,' after Ho Yen's explanations. But the names ofthe Sung dynasty are all thrown into the shade by that of Chu Hsi,than whom China has not produced a greater scholar. He composed,or his disciples complied, in the twelfth century, three Works onthe Analects:-- the first called 'Collected Meanings [4];' thesecond, 'Collected Comments [5];' and the third, 'Queries [6].'Nothing could exceed the grace and clearness of his style, and theinfluence which he has exerted on the literature of China has beenalmost despotic.	The scholars of the present dynasty, however, seem inclinedto question the correctness of his views and interpretations ofthe Classics, and the chief place among them is due to Mao Ch'i-ling [7], known by the local name of Hsi-ho [8]. His writings, underthe name of 'The Collected Works of Hsi-ho [9],' have beenpublished in eighty volumes, containing between three and fourhundred books or sections. He has nine treatises on the FourBooks, or parts of them, and deserves to take rank with ChangHsuan and Chu Hsi at the head of Chinese scholars, though he is avehement opponent of the latter. Most of his writings are to befound also in the great Work called 'A Collection of Works on theClassics, under the Imperial dynasty of Ch'ing [10],' whichcontains 1400 sections, and is a noble contribution by thescholars of the present dynasty to the illustration of its ancientliterature.1 ????y??.2 ????.3 ??y???q.4 ??y???q.5 ??y????.6 ??y???.7 ??_??.8 ??e.9 ??e????.10 ??M?g??.SECTION IV.OF VARIOUS READINGS.	In 'The Collection of Supplementary Observations on theFour Books [1],' the second chapter contains a general view ofcommentaries on the Analects, and from it I extract the followinglist of various readings of the text found in the comments ofChang Hsuan, and referred to in the first section of this chapter.Book II. i, ?? for ?@; viii, ?? for ?W; xix, ?? for ??; xxiii. 1, ?Q?@?i??,without ?], for ?Q?@?i???]. Book III. vii, in the clause ???]?g?G, hemakes a full stop at ?]; xxi. 1, ?D for ??. Book IV. x, ?? for ?A, and ?}for ??. Book V. xxi, he puts a full stop at ?l. Book VI. vii, he has notthe characters ?h?^. Book VII. iv, ?? for ?P; xxxiv, ?l?e simply, for?l?e?f. Book IX. ix, ?? for ??. Book XI. xxv. 7, ?? for ??, and ?X for ?k.Book XIII. iii. 3, ?_?? for ??; xviii. 1, ?} for ?`. Book XIV. xxxi, ?? for??; xxxiv. 1, ??O?????P for ??O?????P. Book XV. i. a, ?^ for .Book XVI. i. 13, ?? for ??. Book XVII. i, ?X for ?k; xxiv. 2, ?? for ?u.Book XVIII. iv, ?X for ?k; viii. 1, ?? for ??.	These various readings are exceedingly few, and inthemselves insignificant. The student who wishes to pursue thissubject at length, is provided with the means in the Work of TiChiao-shau [2], expressly devoted to it. It forms sections 449-473 of the Works of the Classics, mentioned at the close of thepreceding section. A still more comprehensive work of the samekind is, 'The Examination of the Text of the Classics and ofCommentaries on them,' published under the superintendence ofYuan Yuan, forming chapters 818 to 1054 of the same Collection.Chapters 1016 to 1030 are occupied with the Lun yu; see thereference to Yuan Yuan farther on, on p. 132.1 ?|???l??. Published in 1798. The author was a Tsao Yin-ku --??G??.2 ?C???, ?|????.CHAPTER III.OF THE GREAT LEARNING.SECTION I.HISTORY OF THE TEXT, AND THE DIFFERENT ARRANGEMENTS OF ITWHICH HAVE BEEN PROPOSED.	1. It has already been mentioned that 'The Great Learning'frms one of the Books of the Li Chi, or 'Record of Rites,' theformation of the text of which will be treated of in its properplace. I will only say here, that the Records of Rites had sufferedmuch more, after the death of Confucius, than the other ancientClassics which were supposed to have been collected and digestedby him. They were in a more dilapidated condition at the time ofthe revivial of the ancient literature under the Han dynasty, andwere then published in three collections, only one of which -- theRecord of Rites -- retains its place among the five Ching.	The Record of Rites consists, according to the ordinaryarrangement, of forty-nine Chapters or Books. Liu Hsiang (see ch.I. sect. II. 2) took the lead in its formation, and was followed bythe two famous scholars, Tai Teh [1], and his relative, Tai Shang[2]. The first of these reduced upwards of 200 chapters, collectedby Hsiang, to eighty-nine, and Shang reduced these again to forty-six. The three other Books were added in the second century of ourera, the Great Learning being one of them, by Ma Yung, mentionedin the last chapter, section III.2.  Since his time, the Work has notreceived any further additions.	2. In his note appended to what he calls the chapter of'Classical Text,' Chu Hsi says that the tablets of the 'old copies'of the rest of the Great Learning were considerably out of order.By those old copies, he intends the Work of Chang Hsuan, whopublished his commentary on the Classic, soon after it wascompleted by the additions of Ma Yung; and t is possible that thetablets were in confusion, and had not been arranged withsufficient care; but such a thing does not appear to have beensuspected until the1 ???w2 ???t Shang was a second cousin of Teh.twelfth century, nor can any evidence from ancient monuments beadduced in its support.	I have related how the ancient Classics were cut on slabs ofstone by imperial order, A.D. 175, the text being that which thevarious literati had determined, and which had been adopted byChang Hsuan. The same work was performed about seventy yearslater, under the so-called dynasty of Wei, between the years 240and 248, and the two sets of slabs were set up together. The onlydifference between them was, that whereas the Classics had beencut in the first instance only in one form, the characters in theslabs of Wei were in three different forms. Amd the changes ofdynasties, the slabs both of Han and Wei had perished, or nearlyso, before the rise of the T'ang dynasty, A.D. 624; but under one ofits emperors, in the year 836, a copy of the Classics was againcut on stone, though only in one form of the character. Theseslabs we can trace down through the Sung dynasty, when theywere known as the tablets of Shen [1]. They were in exactconformity with the text of the Classics adopted by Chang Hsuanin his commentaries; and they exist at the present day at the cityof Hsi-an, Shen-hsi, still called by the same name.	The Sung dynasty did not accomplish a similar work itself,nor did either of the two which followed it think it necessary toengrave in stone in this way the ancient Classics. About themiddle of the sixteenth century, however, the literary world inChina was startled by a reprt that the slabs of Wei whichcontained the Great Learning had been discovered. But this wasnothing more than the result f an impudent attempt at animposition, for which it is difficult to a foreigner to assign anyadequate cause. The treatise, as printed from these slabs, hassome trifling additions, and many alterations in the order of thetext, but differing from the arrangements proposed by Chu Hsi,and by other scholars. There seems to be now no difference ofopinion among Chinese critics that the whole affair was aforgery. The text of the Great Learning, as it appears in theRecord of Rites with the commentary of Chang Hsuan, and wasthrice engraved on stone, in three different dynasties, is, nodoubt, that which was edited in the Han dynasty by Ma Yung.	3. I have said, that it is possible that the tablets containingthe1 ?E?O.text were not arranged with sufficient care by him; and indeed,any one who studies the treatise attentively, will probably cometo the conclusion that the part of it forming the first sixchapters of commentary in the present Work is but a fragment. Itwould not be a difficult task to propose an arrangement of thetext different from any which I have yet seen; but such anundertaking would not be interesting out of China. My object hereis simply to mention the Chinese scholars wh have renderedthemselves famous or notorious in their own country by whatthey hav done in this way. The first was Ch'ang Hao, a native ofLo-yang in Ho-nan Province, in the eleventh century [1]. Hisdesignation of Po-shun, but since his death he has been knownchiefly by the style of Ming-tao [2], which we may render theWise-in-doctrine. The eulogies heaped on him by Chu Hsi andothers are extravagant, and he is placed immediately afterMencious in the list of great scholars. Doubtless he was a man ofvast literary acquirements. The greatest change which heintroduced into the Great Learning, was to read sin [3] for ch'in[4], at the commencement, making the second object proposed inthe treatise to be the renovation of the people, instead of lovingthem. This alteration and his various transpositions of the textare found in Mao Hsi-ho's treatise on 'The Attested Text of theGreat Learning [5].'	Hardly less illustrious than Ch'ang Hao was his youngerbrother Ch'ang I, known by the style of Chang-shu [6], and sincehis death by that of I-chwan [7]. He followed Hao in the adoptionof the reading 'to renovate,' instead of 'to love.' But he transposedthe text differently, more akin to the arrangement afterwardsmade by Chu Hsi, suggesting also that there were somesuperfluous sentences in the old text which might conveniently beerased. The Work, as proposed to be read by him, will be found inthe volume of Mao just referred to.	We come to the name of Chu Hsi who entered into the laborsof the brothers Ch'ang, the young of whom he styles his Master, inhis introductory note to the Great Learning. His arrangement ofthe text is that now current in all the editions of the Four Books,and it had nearly displaced the ancient text1 ?{?l?V?M?r?B?E?M?e?n?M?????H.2 ???D.3 ?s.4 ??.5 ?j????.6 ?{?l?[?M?r?????M???D????.7 ??t.altogether. The sanction of Imperial approval was given to itduring the Yuan and Ming dynasties. In the editions of the FiveChing published by them, only the names of the Doctrine of theMean and the Great Learning were preserved. No text of theseBooks was given, and Hsi-ho tells us that in the reign of Chia-ching [1], the most flourishing period of the Ming dynasty (A.D.1522-1566), when Wang Wan-ch'ang [2] published a copy of theGreat Learning, taken from the T'ang edition of the ThirteenChing, all the officers and scholars looked at one another inastonishment, and were inclined to supposed that the Work was aforgery. Besides adopting the reading of sin for ch'in from theCh'ang, and modifying their arrangements of the text, Chu Hsimade other innovations. He first divided the whole into onechapter of Classical text, which he assigned to Confucius, andthen chapters of Commentary, which he assigned to the discipleTsang. Previous to him, the whole had been published, indeed,without any specification of chapters and paragraphs. Heundertook, moreover, to supply one whole chapter, which hesupposed, after his master Ch'ang, to be missing.	Since the time of Chu Hsi, many scholars have exercisedtheir wit on the Great Learning.  The work of Mao Hsi-ho containsfour arrangements of the text, proposed respectively by thescholars Wang Lu-chai [3], Chi P'ang-shan [4], Kao Ching-yi [5],and Ko Ch'i-chan [6]. The curious student may examine them here.	Under the present dynasty, the tendency has been todepreciate the labors of Chu Hsi. The integrity of the text ofChang Hsuan is zealously maintained, and the simpler method ofinterpretation employed by him is advocated in preference to themore refined and ingenious schemes of the Sung scholars.  I havereferred several times in the notes to a Work published a fewyears ago, under the title of 'The Old Text of the sacred Ching,with Commentary and Discussions, by Lo Chung-fan of Nan-hai[7].' I knew the man many years ago. He was a fine scholar, and hadtaken the second degree, or that of Chu-zan. He applied to me in1843 for Christian baptism, and, offended by my hesitancy, wentand enrolled himself among the disciples of another missionary.He soon, however,1 ??t.2 ????.3 ???|??.4 ???^?s.5 ?????h.6 ????7 ?t?g?j??,?n????????.withdrew into seclusion, and spent the last years of his life inliterary studies. His family have published the Work on the GreatLearning, and one or two others. He most vehemently impugnsnearly every judgment of Chu Hsi; but in his own exhibitions ofthe meaning he blends many ideas of the Supreme Being and of thecondition of human nature, which he had learned from theChristian Scriptures.SECTION II.OF THE AUTHORSHIP, AND DISTINCTION OF THE TEXT INTOCLASSICAL TEXT AND COMMENTARY.	1. The authorship of the Great Learning is a very doubtfulpoint, and one on which it does not appear possible to come to adecided conclusion. Chu Hsi, as I have stated in the last section,determined that so much of it was Ching, or Classic, being thevery words of Confucius, and that all the rest was Chwan, orCommentary, being the views of Tsang Shan upon the sage'swords, recorded by his disciples. Thus, he does not expresslyattribute the composition of the Treatise to Tsang, as he isgenerally supposed to do. What he says, however, as it isdestitute of external support, is contrary also to the internalevidence. The fourth chapter of commentary commences with 'TheMaster said.' Surely, if there were anything more, directly fromConfucius, there would be an intimation of it in the same way. Or,if we may allow that short sayings of Confucius might beinterwoven with the Work, as in the fifteenth paragraph of thetenth chapter, without referring them expressly to him, it is toomuch to ask us to receive the long chapter at the beginning asbeing from him. With regard to the Work having come from thedisciples of Tsang Shan, recording their master's views, theparagraph in chapter sixth, commencing with 'The disciple Tsangsaid,' seems to be conclusive against such an hypothesis. So muchwe may be sure is Tsang's, and no more. Both of Chu Hsi'sjudgments must be set aside. We cannot admit either thedistinction of the contents into Classical text and Commentary,or that the Work was the production of Tsang's disciples.	2. Who then was the author? An ancient tradition attributesit to K'ung Chi, the grandson of Confucius. In a notice published, atthe time of their preparation, about the stone slabs of Wei, thefollowing statement by Chia K'wei, a noted scholar of the firstcentury, is found:-- 'When K'ung Chi was living, and in straits, inSung, being afraid lest the lessons of the former sages shouldbecome obscure, and the principles of the ancient sovereigns andkings fall to the ground, he therefore made the Great Learning asthe warp of them, and the Doctrine of the Mean as the woof [1].'This would seem, therefore, to have been the opinion of that earlytime, and I may say the only difficulty in admitting it is that nomention is made of it by Chang Hsuan. There certainly is thatagreement between the two treatises, which makes their commonauthorship not at all unlikely.	3. Though we cannot positively assign the authorship of theGreat Learning, there can be no hesitation in receiving it as agenuine monument of the Confucian school. There are not manywords in it from the sage himself, but it is a faithful reflectionof his teachings, written by some of his followers, not farremoved from him by lapse of time. It must synchronize prettynearly with the Analects, and may be safely referred to the fifthcentury before our era.SECTION III.ITS SCOPE AND VALUE.	1. The worth of the Great Learning has been celebrated inmost extravagant terms by Chinese writers, and there have beenforeigners who have not yielded to them in their estimation of it.Pauthier, in the 'Argument Philosphique,' prefixed to histranslation of the Work, says:-- 'It is evident that the aim of theChinese philosopher is to exhibit the duties of politicalgovernment as those of the perfecting of self, and of the practiceof virtue by all men. He felt that he had a higher mission than thatwith which the greater part of ancient and modern philosophershave contented themselves; and his immense love for thehappiness of humanity, which dominated over all his othersentiments, has made of his1 ????????,???Q????g?_?Q??,??~??f????,??,????a?~?_??,????t???????,???????D?Y,?G?@?j??H?g??,???e?H?n??; see the ?j?????,?@,p. 5.philosophy a system of social perfectionating, which, we ventureto say, has never been equalled.'	Very different is the judgment passed upon the treatise by awriter in the Chinese Repository: 'The Ta Hsio is a short politico-moral discourse. Ta Hsio, or "Superior Learning," is at the sametime both the name and the subject of the discourse; it is thesummum bonum of the Chinese. In opening this Book, compiled bya disciple of Confucius, and containing his doctrines, we mightexpect to find a work like Cicero's De Officiis; but we find a verydifferent production, consisting of a few commonplace rules forthe maintenance of a good government [1].'	My readers will perhaps think, after reading the presentsection, that the truth lies between these two representations.	2. I believe that the Book should be styled T'ai Hsio [2], andnot Ta Hsio, and that it was so named as setting forth the higherand more extensive principles of moral science, which come intouse and manifestation in the conduct of government. When Chu Shiendeavours to make the title mean -- 'The principles of Learning,which were taught in the higher schools of antiquity,' and tells ushow at the age of fifteen, all the sons of the sovereign, with thelegitimate sons of the nobles, and high officers, down to the morepromising scions of the common people, all entered theseseminaries, and were taught the difficult lessons here inculcated,we pity the ancient youth of China. Such 'strong meat' is notadapted for the nourishment of youthful minds. But the evidenceadduced for the existence of such educational institutions inancient times is unsatisfactory, and from the older interpretationof the title we advance more easily to contemplate the object andmethod of the Work.	3. The object is stated definitely enough in the openingparagraph: 'What the Great Learning teaches, is -- to illustrateillustrious virtue; to love the people; and to rest in the highestexcellence.' The political aim of the writer is here at onceevident. He has before him on one side, the people, the masses ofthe empire, and over against them are those whose work and duty,delegated by Heaven, is to govern them, culminating, as a class, in'the son of Heaven [3],' 'the One man [4],' the sovereign. From thefourth and1 Chinese Repository, vol. iii. p. 982 ???, not ?j??. See the note on the title of the Work below.3 ??l, Cl. (classical) Text, par. 6, 2.4 ?@?H, Comm. ix. 3.fifth paragraphs, we see that if the lessons of the treatise belearned and carried into practice, the result will be that'illustrious virtue will be illustrated throughout the nation,'which will be brought, through all its length and breadth, to acondition of happy tranquillity. This object is certainly bothgrand and good; annd if a reasonable and likely method to secureit were proposed in the Work, language would hardly supply termsadequate to express its value.	4. But the above account of the object of the Great Learningleads us to the conclusion that the student of it should be asovereign.  What interest can an ordinary man have in it? It ishigh up in the clouds, far beyond his reach. This is a seriousobjection to it, and quite unfits it for a place in schools, such asChu Hsi contends it once had. Intelligent Chinese, whose mindswere somewhat quickened by Christianity, have spoken to me ofthis defect, and complained of the difficulty they felt in makingthe book a practical directory for their conduct. 'It is so vagueand vast,' was the observation of one man. The writer, however,has made some provision for the general application of hisinstructions. He tells us that, from the sovereign down to themass of the people, all must consider the cultivation of theperson to be the root, that is, the first thing to be attended to [1]._as in his method, moreover, he reaches from the cultivation ofthe person to the tranquillization of the kingdom, through theintermediate steps of the regulation of the family, and thegovernment of the State [2], there is room for setting forthprinciples that parents and rulers generally may find adapted fortheir guidance.	5. The method which is laid down for the attainment of thegreat object proposed, consists of seven steps:-- theinvestigation of things; the completion of knowledge; thesincerity of the thoughts; the rectifying of the heart; thecultivation of the person; the regulation of the family; and thegovernment of the state. These form the steps of a climax, theend of which is the kingdom tranquillized. Pauthier calls theparagraphs where they occur instances of the sorites, or abridgedsyllogism. But they elong to rhetoric, and not to logic.	6. In offering some observations on these steps, and thewriter's treatment of them, it will be well to separate them intothose preceding the cultivation of the person, and those followingit; and to1  Cl. Text, par. 6.2  Cl. Text, pars. 4. 5.deal with the latter first. -- Let us suppose that the cultivationof the person is fully attained, every discordant mental elementhaving been subdued and removed. It is assumed that theregulation of the family will necessarily flow from this. Twoshort paragraphs are all that are given to the illustration of thepoint, and they are vague generalities on the subject of men'sbeing led astray by their feelings and affections.	The family being regulated, there will result from it thegovernment of the State. First, the virtues taught in the familyhave their correspondencies in the wider sphere. Filial piety willappear as loyalty. Fraternal submission will be seen in respectand obedience to elders and superiors. Kindness is capable ofuniversal application. Second, 'From the loving example of onefamily, a whole State becomes loving, and from its courtesies thewhole State become courteous [1].' Seven paragraphs suffice toillustrate these statements, and short as they are, the writergoes back to the topic of self-cultivation, returning from thefamily to the individual.	The State being governed, the whole empire will becomepeaceful and happy. There is even less of connexion, however, inthe treatment of this theme, between the premiss and theconclusion, than in the two previous chapters. Nothing is saidabout the relation between the whole kingdom, and its componentStates, or any one of them. It is said at once, 'What is meant by"The making the whole kingdom peaceful and happy depends on thegovernment of the State," is this:-- When the sovereign behavesto his aged, as the aged should be behaved to, the people becomefilial; when the sovereign behaves to his elders, as elders shouldbe behaved to, the people learn brotherly submission; when thesovereign treats compassionately the young and helpless, thepeople do the same [2].' This is nothing but a repetition of thepreceding chapter, instead of that chapter's being made a stepfrom which to go on to the splendid consummation of the goodgovernment of the whole kingdom.	The words which I have quoted are followed by a verystriking enunciation of the golden rule in its negative form, andunder the name of the measuring square, and all the lessons of thechapter are connected more or less closely with that. Theapplication of this principle by a ruler, whose heart is in the firstplace in loving sympathy with the people, will guide him in all theexactions which1  See Comm. ix. 3.2  See Comm. x. 1.he lays upon them, and in his selection of ministers, in such away that he will secure the affections of his subjects, and histhrone will be established, for 'by gaining the people, the kingdomis gained, and, by losing the people, the kingdom is lost [1].' Thereare in this part of the treatise many valuable sentiments, andcounsels for all in authority over others. The objection to it is,that, as the last step of the climax, it does not rise upon all theothers with the accumulated force of their conclusions, butintroduces us to new principles of action, and a new line ofargument. Cut off the commencement of the first paragraph whichconnects it with the preceding chapters, and it would form a briefbut admirable treatise by itself on the art of government.	This brief review of the writer's treatment of theconcluding steps of his method will satisfy the reader that theexecution is not equal to the design; and, moreover, underneath allthe reasoning, and more especially apparent in the eighth andninth chapters of commentary (according to the ordinaryarrangement of the work), there lies the assumption that exampleis all but omnipotent. We find this principle pervading all theConfucian philosophy. And doubtless it is a truth, most importantin education and government, that the influence of example isvery great. I believe, and will insist upon it hereafter in theseprolegomena, that we have come to overlook this element in ourconduct of administration. It will be well if the study of theChinese Classics should call attention to it. Yet in them thesubject is pushed to an extreme, and represented in anextravagant manner. Proceeding from the view of human naturethat it is entirely good, and led astray only by influences fromwithout, the sage of China and his followers attribute to personalexample and to instruction a power which we do not find thatthey actually possess.	7. The steps which precede the cultivation of the person aremore briefly dealt with than those which we have justconsidered. 'The cultivation of the person results from therectifying of the heart or mind [2].' True, but in the Great Learningvery inadequately set forth.	'The rectifying of the mind is realized when the thoughtsare made sincere [3].' And the thoughts are sincere, when no self-deception is allowed, and we move without effort to what is rightand wrong, 'as we love what is beautiful, and as we dislike a bad1  Comm. x. 5.2  Comm. vii. 1.3  Comm. Ch. vi.smell [1].' How are we to attain this state? Here the Chinesemoralist fails us. According to Chu Hsi's arrangement of theTreatise, there is only one sentence from which we can frame areply to the above question. 'Therefore,' it is said, 'the superiorman must be watchful over himself when he is alone [2].'Following. Chu's sixth chapter of commentary, and forming, wemay say, part of it, we have in the old arrangement of the GreatLearning all the passages which he has distributed so as to formthe previous five chapters. But even from the examination ofthem, we do not obtain the information which we desire on thismomentous inquiry.	8. Indeed, the more I study the Work, the more satisfied Ibecome, that from the conclusion of what is now called thechapter of classical text to the sixth chapter of commentary, wehave only a few fragments, which it is of no use trying toarrange, so as fairly to exhibit the plan of the author. Accordingto his method, the chapter on the connexion between making thethoughts sincere and so rectifying the mental nature, should bepreceded by one on the completion of knowledge as the means ofmaking the thoughts sincere, and that again by one on thecompletion of knowledge by the investigation of things, orwhatever else the phrase ko wu may mean. I am less concernedfor the loss and injury which this part of the Work has suffered,because the subject of the connexion between intelligence andvirtue is very fully exhibited in the Doctrine of the Mean, and willcome under our notice in the review of that Treatise. The mannerin which Chu Hsi has endeavoured to supply the blank about theperfecting of knowledge by the investigation of things is tooextravagant. 'The Learning for Adults,' he says, 'at the outset ofits lessons, instructs the learner, in regard to all things in theworld, to proceed from what knowledge he has of their principles,and pursue his investigation of them, till he reaches the extremepoint. After exerting himself for a long time, he will suddenlyfind himself possessed of a wide and far-reaching penetration.Then, the qualities of all things, whether external or internal, thesubtle or the coarse, will be apprehended, and the mind, in itsentire substance and its relations to things, will be perfectlyintelligent. This is called the investigation of things. This iscalled the perfection of knowledge [3].' And knowledge must bethus perfected before we can achieve the sincerity of ourthoughts, and the rectifying of our hearts!1 Comm. vi. 1.2 Comm. vi. 2.3 Suppl. to Comm. Ch. v.Verily this would be learning not for adults only, but evenMethuselahs would not be able to compass it. Yet for centuriesthis has been accepted as the orthodox exposition of the Classic.Lo Chung-fan does not express himself too strongly when he saysthat such language is altogether incoherent. The author wouldonly be 'imposing on himself and others.'	9. The orthodox doctrine of China concerning the connexionbetween intelligence and virtue is most seriously erroneous, but Iwill not lay to the charge of the author of the Great Learning thewild representations of the commentator of our twelfth century,nor need I make here any remarks on what the doctrine really is.After the exhibition which I have given, my readers will probablyconclude that the Work before us is far from developing, asPauthier asserts, 'a system of social perfectionating which hasnever been equalled.'	10. The Treatise has undoubtedly great merits, but they arenot to be sought in the severity of its logical processes, or thelarge-minded prosecution of any course of thought. We shall findthem in the announcement of certain seminal principles, which, ifrecognised in government and the regulation of conduct, wouldconduce greatly to the happiness and virtue of mankind. I willconclude these observations by specifying four such principles.	First. The writer conceives nobly of the object ofgovernment, that it is to make its subjects happy and good. Thismay not be a sufficient account of that object, but it is much tohave it so clearly laid down to 'all kings and governors,' that theyare to love the people, ruling not for their own gratification butfor the good of those over whom they are exalted by Heaven. Veryimportant also is the statement that rulers have no divine rightbut what springs from the discharge of their duty. 'The decreedoes not always rest on them. Goodness obtains it, and the wantof goodness loses it [1].'	Second. The insisting on personal excellence in all who haveauthority in the family, the state, and the kingdom, is a greatmoral and social principle. The influence of such personalexcellence may be overstated, but by the requirement of itscultivation the writer deserved well of his country.	Third. Still more important than the requirement of suchexcellence, is the principle that it must be rooted in the state of1 Comm. x. 11.the heart, and be the natural outgrowth of internal sincerity. 'As aman thinketh in his heart, so is he.' This is the teaching alike ofSolomon and the author of the Great Learning.	Fourth. I mention last the striking exhibition which we haveof the golden rule, though only in its negative form:-- 'What a mandislikes in his superiors, let him not display in the treatment ofhis inferiors; what he dislikes in inferiors, let him not display inhis service of his superiors; what he dislikes in those who arebefore him, let him not therewith precede those who are behindhim; what he dislikes in those who are behind him, let him nottherewith follow those who are before him; what he dislikes toreceive on the right, let him not bestow on the left; what hedislikes to receive on the left, let him not bestow on the right.This is what is called the principle with which, as with ameasuring square, to regulate one's conduct [1].' The Work whichcontains those principles cannot be thought meanly of. They are'commonplace,' as the writer in the Chinese Repository callsthem, but they are at the same time eternal verities.l Comm. x. a.CHAPTER IV.THE DOCTRINE OF THE MEAN.SECTION I. ITS PLACE IN THE LI CHI, AND ITS PUBLICATIONSEPARATELY.	1. The Doctrine of the Mean was one of the treatises whichcame to light in connexion with the labors of Liu Hsiang, and itsplace as the thirty-first Book in the Li Chi was finallydetermined by Ma Yung and Chang Hsuan. In the translation of theLi Chi in 'The Sacred Books of the East' it is the twenty-eighthTreatise.	2. But while it was thus made to form a part of the greatcollection of Treatises on Ceremonies, it maintained a separatefooting of its own. In Liu Hsin's Catalogue of the Classical Works,we find 'Two p'ien of Observations on the Chung Yung [l].' In theRecords of the dynasty of Sui (A.D. 589-618), in the chapter onthe History of Literature [2], there are mentioned three Works onthe Chung Yung;-- the first called 'The Record of the Chung Yung,'in two chuan, attributed to Tai Yung, a scholar who flourishedabout the middle of the fifth century; the second, 'A Paraphraseand Commentary on the Chung Yung,' attributed to the emperor Wu(A.D. 502-549) of the Liang dynasty, in one chuan ; and the third,'A Private Record, Determining the Meaning of the Chung Yung,' infive chuan, the author, or supposed author, of which is notmentioned [3].	It thus appears, that the Chung Yung had been published andcommented on separately, long before the time of the Sungdynasty. The scholars of that, however, devoted special attentionto it, the way being led by the famous Chau Lien-ch'i [4]. He wasfollowed by the two brothers Ch'ang, but neither of thempublished upon it. At last came Chu Hsi, who produced his Workcalled1 ???e???G?g.2 ????,???T?Q?G,???G?Q?C,?g?y,?@, p. 12.3 ?O???e?M,?G??,?????M?`?????;???e????,?@??,??Z???;?p?O?????e;????.4 ?P????.'The Chung Yung, in Chapters and Sentences [1],' which was madethe text book of the Classic at the literary examinations, by thefourth emperor of the Yuan dynasty (A.D. 1312-1320), and fromthat time the name merely of the Treatise was retained ineditions of the Li Chi. Neither text nor ancient commentary wasgiven.	Under the present dynasty it is not so. In the superb editionof 'The Three Li Ching,' edited by numerous committees ofscholars towards the middle of the Ch'ien-lung reign, the ChungYung is published in two parts, the ancient commentaries from'The Thirteen Ching' being given side by side with those of ChuHsi.SECTION II.ITS AUTHOR; AND SOME ACCOUNT OF HIM.	1. The composition of the Chung Yung is attributed to K'ungChi, the grandson of Confucius [2]. Chinese inquirers and criticsare agreed on this point, and apparently on sufficient grounds.There is indeed no internal evidence in the Work to lead us to sucha conclusion. Among the many quotations of Confucius's words andreferences to him, we might have expected to find someindication that the sage was the grandfather of the author, butnothing of the kind is given. The external evidence, however, orthat from the testimony of authorities, is very strong. In Sze-maCh'ien's Historical Records, published about B.C. 100, it isexpressly said that 'Tsze-sze made the Chung Yung.' And we have astill stronger proof, a century earlier, from Tsze-sze's owndescendant, K'ung Fu, whose words are, 'Tsze-sze compiled theChung Yung in forty-nine p'ien [3].' We may, therefore, accept thereceived account without hesitation.	2. As Chi, spoken of chiefly by his designation of Tsze-sze,thus occupies a distinguished place in the classical literature ofChina, it1 ???e???y.2 ?l??@???e; see the ?v?O,?|?Q?C,??l?@?a.3 This K'ung Fu (???{) was that descendant of Confucius, who hidseveral books in the wall of his house, on the issuing of theimperial edict for their burning. He was a writer himself, and hisWorks are referred to under the title of ???O?l. I have not seenthem, but the statement given above is found in the ?|???l??;--art. ???e. -- ???O?l??,?l?????e????,?|?Q?E?g.may not be out of place to bring together here a few notices ofhim gathered from reliable sources.	He was the son of Li, whose death took place B.C. 483, fouryears before that of the sage, his father. I have not found itrecorded in what year he was born. Sze-ma Ch'ien says he died atthe age of 62. But this is evidently wrong, for we learn fromMencius that he was high in favour with the duke Mu of Lu [1],whose accession to that principality dates in B.C. 409, seventyyears after the death of Confucius. In the 'Plates and Notices ofthe Worthies, sacrificed to in the Sage's Temples [2],' it issupposed that the sixty-two in the Historical Records should beeighty-two [3]. It is maintained by others that Tsze-sze's lifewas protracted beyond 100 years [4]. This variety of opinionssimply shows that the point cannot be positively determined. Tome it seems that the conjecture in the Sacrificial Canon must bepretty near the truth [5].	During the years of his boyhood, then, Tsze-sze must havebeen with his grandfather, and received his instructions. It isrelated, that one day, when he was alone with the sage, and heardhim sighing, he went up to him, and, bowing twice, inquired thereason of his grief. 'Is it,' said he, 'because you think that yourdescendants, through not cultivating themselves, will beunworthy of you? Or is it that, in your admiration of the ways ofYao and Shun, you are vexed that you fall short of them?' 'Child,'replied Confucius, 'how is it that you know my thoughts?' 'I haveoften,' said Tsze-sze, 'heard from you the lesson, that when thefather has gathered and prepared the firewood, if the son cannotcarry the bundle, he is to be pronounced degenerate and unworthy.The remark comes frequently into my thoughts, and fills me withgreat apprehensions.' The sage was delighted. He1. ?|?p(or ?[)??.2. ?t?q??????.3. ??H???Q?G???K?Q?G???~. Eighty-two and sixty-two may moreeasily be confounded, as written in Chinese, than with the Romanfigures.4 See the ?|?????, on the preface to the Chung Yung, -- ?~??l????.5 Li himself was born in Confucius's twenty-first year, and ifTsze-sze had been born in Li's twenty-first year, he must havebeen 103 at the time of duke Mu's accession. But the tradition is,that Tsze-sze was a pupil of Tsang Shan who was born B.C. 504.We must place his birth therefore considerably later, and supposehim to have been quite young when his father died. I was talkingonce about the question with a Chinese friend, who observed:-- 'Liwas fifty when he died, and his wife married again into a familyof Wei. We can hardly think, therefore, that she was anything likethat age. Li could not have married so soon as his father did.Perhaps he was about forty when Chi was born.'smiled and said, 'Now, indeed, shall I be without anxiety! Myundertakings will not come to naught. They will be carried on andflourish [1].' After the death of Confucius, Chi became a pupil, itis said, of the philosopher Tsang. But he received his instructionswith discrimination, and in one instance which is recorded in theLi Chi, the pupil suddenly took the place of the master. We thereread: 'Tsang said to Tsze-sze, "Chi, when I was engaged inmourning for my parents, neither congee nor water entered mymouth for seven days." Tsze-sze answered, "In ordering theirrules of propriety, it was the design of the ancient kings thatthose who would go beyond them should stoop and keep by them,and that those who could hardly reach them should stand on tiptoeto do so. Thus it is that the superior man, in mourning for hisparents, when he has been three days without water or congee,takes a staff to enable himself to rise [2]."'	While he thus condemned the severe discipline of Tsang,Tsze-sze appears, in various incidents which are related of him,to have been himself more than sufficiently ascetic. As he wasliving in great poverty, a friend supplied him with grain, which hereadily received. Another friend was emboldened by this to sendhim a bottle of spirits, but he declined to receive it.' You receiveyour corn from other people,' urged the donor, 'and why should youdecline my gift, which is of less value? You can assign no groundin reason for it, and if you wish to show your independence, youshould do so completely.' 'I am so poor,' was the reply, 'as to be inwant, and being afraid lest I should die and the sacrifices not beoffered to my ancestors, I accept the grain as an alms. But thespirits and the dried flesh which you offer to me are theappliances of a feast. For a poor man to be feasting is certainlyunreasonable. This is the ground of my refusing your gift. I haveno thought of asserting my independence [3].'	To the same effect is the account of Tsze-sze, which wehave from Liu Hsiang. That scholar relates:-- 'When Chi was livingin Wei, he wore a tattered coat, without any lining, and in thirtydays had only nine meals. T'ien Tsze-fang having heard of his1 See the ?|?????, in the place just quoted from. For the incidentwe are indebted to K'ung Fu; see note 3, p. 36.2 Li Chi, II. Sect. I. ii. 7.3 See the ?|?????, as above.distress, sent a messenger to him with a coat of fox-fur, andbeing afraid that he might not receive it, he added the message,--"When I borrow from a man, I forget it; when I give a thing, I partwith it freely as if I threw it away." Tsze-sze declined the giftthus offered, and when Tsze-fang said, "I have, and you have not;why will you not take it?" he replied, "You give away as rashly asif you were casting your things into a ditch. Poor as I am, I cannotthink of my body as a ditch, and do not presume to accept yourgift [1]." 'Tsze-sze's mother married again, after Li's death, into afamily of Wei. But this circumstance, which is not at allcreditable in Chinese estimation, did not alienate his affectionsfrom her. He was in Lu when he heard of her death, and proceededto weep in the temple of his family. A disciple came to him andsaid, 'Your mother married again into the family of the Shu, and doyou weep for her in the temple of the K'ung?' 'I am wrong,' saidTsze-sze, 'I am wrong;' and with these words he went to weepelsewhere [2].	In his own married relation he does not seem to have beenhappy, and for some cause, which has not been transmitted to us,he divorced his wife, following in this, it has been wrongly said,the example of Confucius. On her death, her son, Tsze-shang [3],did not undertake any mourning for her. Tsze-sze's disciples weresurprised and questioned him. 'Did your predecessor, a superiorman,' they asked, 'mourn for his mother who had been divorced?''Yes,' was the reply. 'Then why do you not cause Pai [4] to mournfor his mother?' Tsze-sze answered, 'My progenitor, a superiorman, failed in nothing to pursue the proper path. His observancesincreased or decreased as the case required. But I cannot attain tothis. While she was my wife, she was Pai's mother; when sheceased to be my wife, she ceased to be Pai's mother.' The customof the K'ung family not to mourn for a mother who had beendivorced, took its rise from Tsze-sze [5].	These few notices of K'ung Chi in his more private relationsbring him before us as a man of strong feeling and strong will,independent, and with a tendency to asceticism in his habits.1 See the ?|?????, as above.2 See the Li Chi, II. Sect. II. iii. 15. ?f????? must be understoodas I have done above, and not with Chang Hsuan, -- 'Your motherwas born a Miss Shu.'3 ?l?W -- this was the designation of Tsze-sze's son.4 ??,-- this was Tsze-shang's name.5 See the Li Chi, II. Sect. I. i. 4.As a public character, we find him at the ducal courts of Wei,Sung; Lu, and Pi, and at each of them held in high esteem by therulers. To Wei he was carried probably by the fact of his motherhaving married into that State. We are told that the prince of Weireceived him with great distinction and lodged him honourably. Onone occasion he said to him, 'An officer of the State of Lu, youhave not despised this small and narrow Wei, but have bent yoursteps hither to comfort and preserve it; vouchsafe to confer yourbenefits upon me.' Tsze-sze replied. 'If I should wish to requiteyour princely favour with money and silks, your treasuries arealready full of them, and I am poor. If I should wish to requite itwith good words, I am afraid that what I should say would notsuit your ideas, so that I should speak in vain and not be listenedto. The only way in which I can requite it, is by recommending toyour notice men of worth.' The duke said. 'Men of worth areexactly what I desire.' 'Nay,' said Chi. 'you are not able toappreciate them.' 'Nevertheless,' was the reply, 'I should like tohear whom you consider deserving that name.' Tsze-sze replied,'Do you wish to select your officers for the name they may haveor for their reality?' 'For their reality, certainly,' said the duke.His guest then said, 'In the eastern borders of your State, there isone Li Yin, who is a man of real worth.' 'What were hisgrandfather and father?' asked the duke. 'They were husbandmen,'was the reply, on which the duke broke into a loud laugh, saying, 'I do not like husbandry. The son of a husbandman cannot be fit forme to employ. I do not put into office all the cadets of thosefamilies even in which office is hereditary.' Tsze-sze observed, 'Imention Li Yin because of his abilities; what has the fact of hisforefathers being husbandmen to do with the case? And moreover,the duke of Chau was a great sage, and K'ang-shu was a greatworthy. Yet if you examine their beginnings, you will find thatfrom the business of husbandry they came forth to found theirStates. I did certainly have my doubts that in the selection ofyour officers you did not have regard to their real character andcapacity.' With this the conversation ended. The duke was silent[1].	Tsze-sze was naturally led to Sung, as the K'ung familyoriginally sprang from that principality. One account, quoted in'The1 See the ??m??,???@??G,???,???.Four Books, Text and Commentary, with Proofs and Illustrations[1],' says that he went thither in his sixteenth year, and havingfoiled an officer of the State, named Yo So, in a conversation onthe Shu Ching, his opponent was so irritated at the disgrace puton him by a youth, that he listened to the advice of evilcounsellors, and made an attack on him to put him to death. Theduke of Sung, hearing the tumult, hurried to the rescue, and whenChi found himself in safety, he said, 'When king Wan wasimprisoned in Yu-li, he made the Yi of Chau. My grandfather madethe Ch'un Ch'iu after he had been in danger in Ch'an and Ts'ai. ShallI not make something when rescued from such a risk in Sung?'Upon this he made the Chung Yung in forty-nine p'ien.	According to this account, the Chung Yung was the work ofTsze-sze's early manhood, and the tradition has obtained awonderful prevalence. The notice in 'The Sacrificial Canon' says,on the contrary, that it was the work of his old age, when he hadfinally settled in Lu, which is much more likely [2].	Of Tsze-sze in Pi, which could hardly be said to be out ofLu, we have only one short notice,-- in Mencius, V. Pt. II. iii. 3,where the duke Hui of Pi is introduced as saying, 'I treat Tsze-szeas my master.'	We have fuller accounts of him in Lu, where he spent all thelatter years of his life, instructing his disciples to the number ofseveral hundred [3], and held in great reverence by the duke Mu.The duke indeed wanted to raise him to the highest office, but hedeclined this, and would only occupy the position of a 'guide,philosopher, and friend.' Of the attention which he demanded,however, instances will he found in Mencius, II. Pt. II. xi. 3; V. Pt.II. vi. 4, and vii. 4. In his intercourse with the duke he spoke thetruth to him fearlessly. In the 'Cyclopaedia of Surnames [4],' I findthe following conversations, but I cannot tell from what sourcethey are extracted into that Work.-- 'One day, the duke said toTsze-sze, "The officer Hsien told me that you do good without1 This is the Work so often referred to as the ?|?????, the fulltitle being ?|??g??????. The passage here translated from it willbe found in the place several times referred to in this section.2 The author of the ?|???l?? adopts the view that the Work wascomposed in Sung. Some have advocated this from ch. xxviii. 5,compared with Ana. III. ix, 'it being proper,' they say, 'that Tsze-sze, writing in Sung, should not depreciate it as Confucius haddone out of it!'3 See in the 'Sacrificial Canon,' on Tsze-sze.4 This is the Work referred to in note 1, p. 40.wishing for any praise from men;-- is it so?" Tsze-sze replied,"No, that is not my feeling. When I cultivate what is good, I wishmen to know it, for when they know it and praise me, I feelencouraged to be more zealous in the cultivation. This is what Idesire, and am not able to obtain. If I cultivate what is good, andmen do not know it, it is likely that in their ignorance they willspeak evil of me. So by my good-doing I only come to be evilspoken of. This is what I do not desire, but am not able to avoid.In the case of a man, who gets up at cock-crowing to practisewhat is good and continues sedulous in the endeavour tillmidnight, and says at the same time that he does not wish men toknow it, lest they should praise him, I must say of such a man,that, if he be not deceitful, he is stupid."'	Another day, the duke asked Tsze-sze, saying, 'Can my statebe made to flourish?' 'It may,' was the reply. 'And how?' Tsze-szesaid, 'O prince, if you and your ministers will only strive torealize the government of the duke of Chau and of Po-ch'in;practising their transforming principles, sending forth wide thefavours of your ducal house, and not letting advantages flow inprivate channels; if you will thus conciliate the affections of thepeople, and at the same time cultivate friendly relations withneighboring states, your state will soon begin to flourish.'	On one occasion, the duke asked whether it had been thecustom of old for ministers to go into mourning for a princewhose service and state they had left. Tsze-sze replied to him,'Of old, princes advanced their ministers to office according topropriety, and dismissed them in the same way, and hence therewas that rule. But now-a-days, princes bring their ministersforward as if they were going to take them on their knees, andsend them away as if they would cast them into an abyss. If theydo not treat them as their greatest enemies, it is well.-- How canyou expect the ancient practice to be observed in suchcircumstances [1]?'	These instances may suffice to illustrate the character ofTsze-sze, as it was displayed in his intercourse with the princesof his time. We see the same independence which he affected inprivate life, and a dignity not unbecoming the grandson ofConfucius. But we miss the reach of thought and capacity foradministration which belonged to the Sage. It is with him, how-1 This conversation is given in the Li Chi, II. Sect. II. Pt. ii, 1.ever, as a thinker and writer that we have to do, and his rank inthat capacity will appear from the examination of the Chung Yungin the section iv below. His place in the temples of the Sage hasbeen that of one of his four assessors, since the year 1267. Heranks with Yen Hui, Tsang Shan, and Mencius, and bears the titleof 'The Philosopher Tsze-sze, Transmitter of the Sage [1].'SECTION III.ITS INTEGRITY.	In the testimony of K'ung Fu, which has been adduced toprove the authorship of the Chung Yung, it is said that the Workconsisted originally of forty-nine p'ien. From this statement it isargued by some, that the arrangement of it in thirty-threechapters, which originated with Chu Hsi, is wrong [2]; but thisdoes not affect the question of integrity, and the character p'ienis so vague and indefinite, that we cannot affirm that K'ung Fumeant to tell us by it that Tsze-sze himself divided his Treatiseinto so many paragraphs or chapters.	It is on the entry in Liu Hsin's Catalogue, quoted section i,--'Two p'ien of Observations on the Chung Yung,' that the integrityof the present Work is called in question. Yen Sze-ku, of the Tangdynasty, has a note on that entry to the effect:-- 'There is nowthe Chung Yung in the Li Chi in one p'ien. But that is not theoriginal Treatise here mentioned, but only a branch from it [3]'Wang Wei, a writer of the Ming dynasty, says:-- 'Anciently, theChung Yung consisted of two p'ien, as appears from the History ofLiterature of the Han dynasty, but in the Li Chi we have only onep'ien, which Chu Hsi, when he made his "Chapters and Sentences,"divided into thirty-three chapters. The old Work in two p'ien isnot to be met with now [4].'	These views are based on a misinterpretation of the entryin the1 ?z?t?l??l.2 See the ?|???l??, art. ???e.3 ?C?v?j??,???O?????e?@?g,???D???g,?\?????y.4 ????n??,???e?j???G?g,???~?????,??b?O????,?@?g??w,???l?????y,?]??@?g??,?????T?Q?T??,??j????g????i???o.Catalogue. It does not speak of two p'ien of the Chung Yung, but oftwo p'ien of Observations thereon. The Great Learning carries onits front the evidence of being incomplete, but the student willnot easily believe that the Doctrine of the Mean is so. I see noreason for calling its integrity in question, and no necessitytherefore to recur to the ingenious device employed in the editionof the five ching published by the imperial authority of K'ang Hsi,to get over the difficulty which Wang Wei supposes. It thereappears in two p'ien, of which we have the following accountfrom the author of 'Supplemental Remarks upon the Four Books:'--'The proper course now is to consider the first twenty chapters inChu Hsi's arrangement as making up the first p'ien, and theremaining thirteen as forming the second. In this way we retainthe old form of the Treatise, and do not come into collision withthe views of Chu. For this suggestion we are indebted to Lu Wang-chai' (an author of the Sung dynasty ) [1].SECTION IV.ITS SCOPE AND VALUE.	1. The Doctrine of the Mean is a work not easy tounderstand. 'It first,' says the philosopher Chang, 'speaks of oneprinciple; it next spreads this out and embraces all things;finally, it returns and gathers them up under the one principle.Unroll it and it fills the universe; roll it up, and it retires andlies hid in secrecy [2].' There is this advantage, however, to thestudent of it, that more than most other Chinese Treatises it hasa beginning, a middle, and an end. The first chapter stands to allthat follows in the character of a text, containing severalpropositions of which we have the expansion or development. Ifthat development were satisfactory, we should be able to bringour own minds en rapport with that of the author. Unfortunately itis not so. As a writer he belongs to the intuitional school morethan to the logical. This is well put in the 'Continuation of theGeneral Examination of Literary Monuments and Learned Men,'--'The philosopher Tsang reached his conclusions by following inthe train of things, watch-1 See the ?|???l??, art. ???e.2 See the Introductory note of Chu Hsi.ing and examining; whereas Tsze-sze proceeds directly andreaches to Heavenly virtue. His was a mysterious power ofdiscernment, approaching to that of Yen Hui [1].' We must take theBook and the author, however, as we have them, and get to theirmeaning, if we can, by assiduous examination and reflection.	2. 'Man has received his nature from Heaven. Conduct inaccordance with that nature constitutes what is right and true,--is a pursuing of the proper Path. The cultivation or regulation ofthat path is what is called Instruction.' It is with these axiomsthat the Treatise commences, and from such an introduction wemight expect that the writer would go on to unfold the variousprinciples of duty, derived from an analysis of man's moralconstitution.	Confining himself, however, to the second axiom, heproceeds to say that 'the path may not for an instant be left, andthat the superior man is cautious and careful in reference to whathe does not see, and fearful and apprehensive in reference to whathe does not hear. There is nothing more visible than what issecret, and nothing more manifest than what is minute, andtherefore the superior man is watchful over his aloneness.' Thisis not all very plain. Comparing it with the sixth chapter ofCommentary in the Great Learning, it seems to inculcate what isthere called 'making the thoughts sincere.' The passage containsan admonition about equivalent to that of Solomon,-- 'Keep thyheart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life.'	The next paragraph seems to speak of the nature and thepath under other names. 'While there are no movements ofpleasure, anger, sorrow, or joy, we have what may be called thestate of equilibrium. When those feelings have been moved, andthey all act in the due degree, we have what may be called thestate of harmony. This equilibrium is the great root of the world,and this harmony is its universal path.' What is here called 'thestate of equilibrium,' is the same as the nature given by Heaven,considered absolutely in itself, without deflection or inclination.This nature acted on from without, and responding with thevarious emotions, so as always 'to hit [2]' the mark with entire1 See the ????m?q??, Bk. cxcix, art. ?l??,--???l?o???_?H????,??l????,?h???F??w,?f?X?C?????.2 ???`.correctness, produces the state of harmony, and such harmoniousresponse is the path along which all human activities shouldproceed.	Finally. 'Let the states of equilibrium and harmony exist inperfection, and a happy order will prevail throughout heaven andearth, and all things will be nourished and flourish.' Here we passinto the sphere of mystery and mysticism. The language,according to Chu Hsi, 'describes the meritorious achievements andtransforming influence of sage and spiritual men in their highestextent.' From the path of duty, where we tread on solid ground,the writer suddenly raises us aloft on wings of air, and will carryus we know not where, and to we know not what.	3. The paragraphs thus presented, and which constitute ChuHsi's first chapter, contain the sum of the whole Work. This isacknowledged by all;-- by the critics who disown Chu Hsi'sinterpretations of it, as freely as by him [1]. Revolving them inmy own mind often and long, I collect from them the following asthe ideas of the author:-- Firstly, Man has received from Heaven amoral nature by which he is constituted a law to himself;secondly, Over this nature man requires to exercise a jealouswatchfulness; and thirdly, As he possesses it, absolutely andrelatively, in perfection, or attains to such possession of it, hebecomes invested with the highest dignity and power, and maysay to himself-- 'I am a god; yea, I sit in the seat of God.' I willnot say here that there is impiety in the last of these ideas; butdo we not have in them the same combination which we found inthe Great Learning,-- a combination of the ordinary and theextraordinary, the plain and the vague, which is very perplexing tothe mind, and renders the Book unfit for the purposes of mentaland moral discipline?	And here I may inquire whether we do right in calling theTreatise by any of the names which foreigners have hitherto usedfor it? In the note on the title, I have entered a little into thisquestion. The Work is not at all what a reader must expect to findin what he supposes to be a treatise on 'The Golden Medium,' 'TheInvariable Mean,' or 'The Doctrine of the Mean.' Thosel Compare Chu Hsi's language in his concluding note to the firstchapter:-- ??????@?g???n, and Mao Hsi-ho's, in his ???e??, ???@,p. 11:-- ?????e?@?????n?].names are descriptive only of a portion of it. Where the phraseChung Yung occurs in the quotations from Confucius, in nearlyevery chapter from the second to the eleventh, we do well totranslate it by 'the course of the Mean,' or some similar terms;but the conception of it in Tsze-sze's mind was of a differentkind, as the preceding analysis of the first chapter sufficientlyshows [1].	4. I may return to this point of the proper title for the Workagain, but in the meantime we must proceed with the analysis ofit.-- The ten chapters from the second to the eleventh constitutethe second part, and in them Tsze-sze quotes the words ofConfucius, 'for the purpose,' according to Chu Hsi, 'of illustratingthe meaning of the first chapter.' Yet, as I have just intimated,they do not to my mind do this. Confucius bewails the rarity ofthe practice of the Mean, and graphically sets forth the difficultyof it. 'The empire, with its component States and families, may beruled; dignities and emoluments may be declined; naked weaponsmay be trampled under foot; but the course of the Mean can not beattained to [2].' 'The knowing go beyond it, and the stupid do notcome up to it [3].' Yet some have attained to it. Shun did so,humble and ever learning from people far inferior to himself [4];and Yen Hui did so, holding fast whatever good he got hold of, andnever letting it go [5]. Tsze-lu thought the Mean could be taken bystorm, but Confucius taught him better [6]. And in fine, it is onlythe sage who can fully exemplify the Mean [7].	All these citations do not throw any light on the ideaspresented in the first chapter. On the contrary, they interrupt thetrain of thought. Instead of showing us how virtue, or the path ofduty is in accordance with our Heaven-given nature, they lead usto think of it as a mean between two extremes. Each extreme maybe a violation of the law of our nature, but that is not made toappear. Confucius's sayings would be in place in illustrating thedoctrine of the Peripatetics, 'which placed all virtue in a mediumbetween opposite vices [8].' Here in the Chung Yung of Tsze-sze Ihave always felt them to be out of place.	5. In the twelfth chapter Tsze-sze speaks again himself,and we seem at once to know the voice. He begins by saying that'the way of the superior man reaches far and wide, and yet is1 In the version in 'The Sacred Books of the East,' I call theTreatise 'The State of Equilibrium and Harmony.'2 Ch. ix.3 Ch. iv.4 Ch. vi.5 Ch. viii.6 Ch. x.7 Ch. xi.8 Encyclopaedia Britannica, Preliminary Dissertations, p. 318,eighth edition.secret,' by which he means to tell us that the path of duty is to bepursued everywhere and at all times, while yet the secret springand rule of it is near at hand, in the Heaven-conferred nature, theindividual consciousness, with which no stranger canintermeddle. Chu Hsi, as will be seen in the notes, gives adifferent interpretation of the utterance. But the view which Ihave adopted is maintained convincingly by Mao Hsi-ho in thesecond part of his 'Observations on the Chung Yung.' With thischapter commences the third part of the Work, which embracesalso the eight chapters which follow. 'It is designed,' says ChuHsi, 'to illustrate what is said in the first chapter that "the pathmay not be left."' But more than that one sentence finds itsillustration here. Tsze-sze had reference in it also to what he hadsaid-- 'The superior man does not wait till he sees things to becautious, nor till he hears things to be apprehensive. There isnothing more visible than what is secret, and nothing moremanifest than what is minute. Therefore, the superior man iswatchful over himself when he is alone.' It is in this portion ofthe Chung Yung that we find a good deal of moral instructionwhich is really valuable. Most of it consists of sayings ofConfucius, but the sentiments of Tsze-sze himself in his ownlanguage are interspersed with them. The sage of China has nohigher utterances than those which are given in the thirteenthchapter.-- 'The path is not far from man. When men try to pursue acourse which is far from the common indications ofconsciousness, this course cannot be considered the path. In theBook of Poetry it is said--"In hewing an axe-handle, in hewing an axe-handle,The pattern is not far off."We grasp one axe-handle to hew the other, and yet if we lookaskance from the one to the other, we may consider them asapart. Therefore, the superior man governs men according to theirnature, with what is proper to them; and as soon as they changewhat is wrong, he stops. When one cultivates to the utmost themoral principles of his nature, and exercises them on theprinciple of reciprocity, he is not far from the path. What you donot like when done to yourself, do not do to others.'	'In the way of the superior man there are four things, tonone of which have I as yet attained.-- To serve my father as Iwould require my son to serve me: to this I have not attained; toservemy elder brother as I would require my younger brother to serveme: to this I have not attained; to serve my ruler as I wouldrequire my minister to serve me: to this I have not attained; toset the example in behaving to a friend as I would require him tobehave to me: to this I have not attained. Earnest in practising theordinary virtues, and careful in speaking about them; if in hispractice he has anything defective, the superior man dares not butexert himself; and if in his words he has any excess, he dares notallow himself such license. Thus his words have respect to hisactions, and his actions have respect to his words;-- is it notjust an entire sincerity which marks the superior man?'	We have here the golden rule in its negative form expresslypropounded:-- 'What you do not like when done to yourself, do notdo to others.' But in the paragraph which follows we have the rulevirtually in its positive form. Confucius recognises the duty oftaking the initiative,-- of behaving himself to others in the firstinstance as he would that they should behave to him. There is acertain narrowness, indeed, in that the sphere of its operationsseems to be confined to the relations of society, which arespoken of more at large in the twentieth chapter, but let us notgrudge the tribute of our warm approbation to the sentiments.	This chapter is followed by two from Tsze-sze, to theeffect that the superior man does what is proper in every changeof his situation, always finding his rule in himself; and that inhis practice there is an orderly advance from step to step,-- fromwhat is near to what is remote. Then follow five chapters fromConfucius:-- the first, on the operation and influence of spiritualbeings, to show 'the manifestness of what is minute, and theirrepressibleness of sincerity;' the second, on the filial piety ofShun, and how it was rewarded by Heaven with the throne, withenduring fame, and with long life; the third and fourth, on thekings Wan and Wu, and the duke of Chau, celebrating them fortheir filial piety and other associate virtues; and the fifth, on thesubject of government. These chapters are interesting enough inthemselves, but when I go back from them, and examine whether Ihave from them any better understanding of the paragraphs in thefirst chapter which they are said to illustrate, I do not find that Ihave. Three of them, the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth,would be more in place in the Classic of Filial Piety than here inthe Chung Yung. The meaning of thesixteenth is shadowy and undefined. After all the study which Ihave directed to it, there are some points in reference to which Ihave still doubts and difficulties.	The twentieth chapter, which concludes the third portion ofthe Work, contains a full exposition of Confucius's views ongovernment, though professedly descriptive only of that of thekings Wan and Wu. Along with lessons proper for a ruler there aremany also of universal application, but the mingling of themperplexes the mind. It tells us of 'the five duties of universalapplication,'-- those between sovereign and minister, husband andwife, father and son, elder and younger brother, and friends; of'the three virtues by which those duties are carried into effect,'namely, knowledge, benevolence, and energy; and of 'the one thing,by which those virtues are practised,' which is singleness orsincerity [1]. It sets forth in detail the 'nine standard rules forthe administration of government,' which are 'the cultivation bythe ruler of his own character; the honouring men of virtue andtalents; affection to his relatives; respect towards the greatministers; kind and considerate treatment of the whole body ofofficers; cherishing the mass of the people as children;encouraging all classes of artisans; indulgent treatment of menfrom a distance; and the kindly cherishing of the princes of theStates [2].' There are these and other equally interesting topics inthis chapter; but, as they are in the Work, they distract the mind,instead of making the author's great object more clear to it, and Iwill not say more upon them here.	6. Doubtless it was the mention of 'singleness,' or'sincerity,' in the twentieth chapter, which made Tsze-szeintroduce it into this Treatise, for from those terms he is able togo on to develop what he intended in saying that 'if the states ofEquilibrium and Harmony exist in perfection, a happy order willprevail throughout heaven and earth, and all things will benourished and flourish.' It is here, that now we are astonished atthe audacity of the writer's assertions, and now lost in vainendeavours to ascertain his meaning. I have quoted the words ofConfucius that it is 'singleness' by which the three virtues ofknowledge, benevolence, and energy are able to carry intopractice the duties of universal obligation. He says also that it isthis same 'singleness' by which 'the nine standard rules ofgovernment' can be effectively carried out [3]. This 'singleness' ismerely a name for 'the states of Equilibrium1 Par. 8.2 Par. 12.3 Par. 15.and Harmony existing in perfection.' It denotes a characterabsolutely and relatively good, wanting nothing in itself, andcorrect in all its outgoings. 'Sincerity' is another term for thesame thing, and in speaking about it, Confucius makes adistinction between sincerity absolute and sincerity acquired.The former is born with some, and practised by them without anyeffort; the latter is attained by study, and practised by strongendeavour [1]. The former is 'the way of Heaven;' the latter is 'theway of men [2].' 'He who possesses sincerity,'-- absolutely, thatis,-- 'is he who without effort hits what is right, and apprehendswithout the exercise of thought; he is the sage who naturally andeasily embodies the right way. He who attains to sincerity, is hewho chooses what is good and firmly holds it fast. And to thisattainment there are requisite the extensive study of what isgood, accurate inquiry about it, careful reflection on it, the cleardiscrimination of it, and the earnest practice of it [3].' In thesepassages Confucius unhesitatingly enunciates his belief thatthere are some men who are absolutely perfect, who come intothe world as we might conceive the first man was, when he wascreated by God 'in His own image,' full of knowledge andrighteousness, and who grow up as we know that Christ did,'increasing in wisdom and in stature.' He disclaimed beingconsidered to be such an one himself [4], but the sages of Chinawere such. And moreover, others who are not so naturally maymake themselves to become so. Some will have to put forth moreeffort and to contend with greater struggles, but the end will bethe possession of the knowledge and the achievement of thepractice.	I need not say that these sentiments are contrary to theviews of human nature which are presented in the Bible. Thetestimony of Revelation is that 'there is not a just man uponearth that doeth good and sinneth not.' 'If we say that we have nosin,' and in writing this term, I am thinking here not of sinagainst God, but, if we can conceive of it apart from that, offailures in regard to what ought to be in our regulation ofourselves, and in our behavior to others;-- 'if we say that we haveno sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.' Thislanguage is appropriate in the lips of the learned as well as inthose of the ignorant, to the highest sage as to the lowest childof the soil. Neither the scriptures of God nor the experience ofman know of individuals1 Par. 9.2 Par. 18.3 Pars. 18, 19.4 Ana. VII. xix.absolutely perfect. The other sentiment that men can makethemselves perfect is equally wide of the truth. Intelligence andgoodness by no means stand to each other in the relation of causeand effect. The sayings of Ovid, 'Video meliora proboque,deteriora sequor,' 'Nitimur in velitum semper. cupimusque negata,'are a more correct expression of the facts of humanconsciousness and conduct than the high-flown praises ofConfucius.	7. But Tsze-sze adopts the dicta of his grandfather withoutquestioning them, and gives them forth in his own style at thecommencement of the fourth part of his Treatise. 'When we haveintelligence resulting from sincerity, this condition is to beascribed to nature; when we have sincerity resulting fromintelligence, this condition is to be ascribed to instruction. Butgiven the sincerity, and there shall be the intelligence; given theintelligence, and there shall be the sincerity [1].'	Tsze-sze does more than adopt the dicta of Confucius. Heapplies them in a way which the Sage never did, and which hewould probably have shrunk from doing. The sincere, or perfectman of Confucius, is he who satisfies completely all therequirements of duty in the various relations of society, and inthe exercise of government; but the sincere man of Tsze-sze is apotency in the universe. 'Able to give its full development to hisown nature, he can do the same to the nature of other men. Able togive its full development to the nature of other men, he can givetheir full development to the natures of animals and things. Ableto give their full development to the natures of creatures andthings, he can assist the transforming and nourishing powers ofHeaven and Earth. Able to assist the transforming and nourishingpowers of Heaven and Earth, he may with Heaven and Earth form aternion [2].' Such are the results of sincerity natural. The casebelow this -- of sincerity acquired, is as follows,-- 'Theindividual cultivates its shoots. From these he can attain to thepossession of sincerity. This sincerity becomes apparent. Frombeing apparent, it becomes manifest. From being manifest, itbecomes brilliant. Brilliant, it affects others. Affecting others,they are changed by it. Changed by it, they are transformed. It isonly he who is possessed of the most complete sincerity that canexist under heaven, who can transform [3].' It may safely beaffirmed, that when he thus expressed himself, Tsze-szeunderstood neither what he said nor1 Ch. xxi.2 Ch. xxii.3 Ch. xxiii.whereof he affirmed. Mao Hsi-ho and some other modern writersexplain away many of his predicates of sincerity, so that in theirhands they become nothing but extravagant hyperboles, but theauthor himself would, I believe, have protested against such amode of dealing with his words. True, his structures are castlesin the air, but he had no idea himself that they were so.	In the twenty-fourth chapter there is a ridiculous descentfrom the sublimity of the two preceding. We are told that thepossessor of entire sincerity is like a spirit and can foreknow,but the foreknowledge is only a judging by the milfoil andtortoise and other auguries! But the author recovers himself, andresumes his theme about sincerity as conducting to self-completion and the completion of other men and things,describing it also as possessing all the qualities which can bepredicated of Heaven and Earth. Gradually the subject is made toconverge to the person of Confucius, who is the ideal of the sage,as the sage is the ideal of humanity at large. An old account ofthe object of Tsze-sze in the Chung Yung is that he wrote it tocelebrate the virtue of his grandfather [1]. He certainly contrivesto do this in the course of it. The thirtieth, thirty-first, andthirty-second chapters contain his eulogium, and never has anyother mortal been exalted in such terms. 'He may be compared toheaven and earth in their supporting and containing, their over-shadowing and curtaining all things; he may be compared to thefour seasons in their alternating progress, and to the sun andmoon in their successive shining.' 'Quick in apprehension, clear indiscernment, of far-reaching intelligence, and all-embracingknowledge, he was fitted to exercise rule; magnanimous,generous, benign, and mild, he was fitted to exercise forbearance;impulsive, energetic, strong, and enduring, he was fitted tomaintain a firm hold; self-adjusted, grave, never swerving fromthe Mean, and correct, he was fitted to command reverence;accomplished, distinctive, concentrative, and searching, he wasfitted to exercise discrimination.' 'All-embracing and vast, hewas like heaven; deep and active as a fountain, he was like theabyss.' 'Therefore his fame overspreads the Middle Kingdom, andextends to all barbarous tribes. Wherever ships and carriagesreach; wherever the strength of man penetrates; wherever theheavens overshadow1 ??w????????l???],?l??,?@???H?L?????w; see the ???e??@, p. 1.and the earth sustains; wherever the sun and moon shine;wherever frosts and dews fall;-- all who have blood and breathunfeignedly honour and love him. Hence it is said,-- He is theequal of Heaven!' 'Who can know him but he who is indeed quick inapprehension, clear in discernment, of far-reaching intelligence,and all-embracing knowledge, possessing all heavenly virtue?'	8. We have arrived at the concluding chapter of the Work, inwhich the author, according to Chu Hsi, 'having carried hisdescriptions to the highest point in the preceding chapters, turnsback and examines the source of his subject; and then again fromthe work of the learner, free from all selfishness and watchfulover himself when he is alone, he carries out his description, tillby easy steps he brings it to the consummation of the wholeworld tranquillized by simple and sincere reverentialness. Hemoreover eulogizes its mysteriousness, till he speaks of it atlast as without sound or smell [1].' Between the first and lastchapters there is a correspondency, and each of them may beconsidered as a summary of the whole treatise. The differencebetween them is, that in the first a commencement is made withthe mention of Heaven as the conferrer of man's nature, while inthis the progress of man in virtue is traced, step by step, till atlast it is equal to that of High Heaven.	9. I have thus in the preceding paragraphs given a generaland somewhat copious review of this Work. My object has been toseize, if I could, the train of thought and to hold it up to thereader. Minor objections to it, arising from the confused use ofterms and singular applications of passages from the olderClassics, are noticed in the notes subjoined to the translation. Iwished here that its scope should be seen, and the means beafforded of judging how far it is worthy of the high characterattributed to it. 'The relish of it,' says the younger Ch'ang, 'isinexhaustible. The whole of it is solid learning. When the skilfulreader has explored it with delight till he has apprehended it, hemay carry it into practice all his life, and will find that it cannotbe exhausted [2].'	My own opinion of it is less favourable. The names by whichit has been called in translations of it have led to misconceptionsof its character. Were it styled 'The states of Equilibrium andHarmony,' we should be prepared to expect something strange andprobably extravagant. Assuredly we should expect nothing more1 See the concluding note by Chu Hsi.2 See the Introductory note below.strange or extravagant than what we have. It begins sufficientlywell, but the author has hardly enunciated his preliminaryapophthegms, when he conducts into an obscurity where we canhardly grope our way, and when we emerge from that, it is to bebewildered by his gorgeous but unsubstantial pictures of sagelyperfection. He has eminently contributed to nourish the pride ofhis countrymen. He has exalted their sages above all that is calledGod or is worshipped, and taught the masses of the people thatwith them they have need of nothing from without. In themeantime it is antagonistic to Christianity. By-and-by, whenChristianity has prevailed in China, men will refer to it as astriking proof how their fathers by their wisdom knew neitherGod nor themselves.CHAPTER V.CONFUCIUS AND HIS IMMEDIATE DISCIPLES.SECTION I.LIFE OF CONFUCIUS.	1. 'And have you foreigners surnames as well?' Thisquestion has often been put to me by Chinese. It marks theignorance which belongs to the people of all that is external to[Sidebar] His ancestry.themselves, and the pride of antiquity which enters largely as anelement into their character. If such a pride could in any case bejustified, we might allow it to the family of the K'ung, thedescendants of Confucius. In the reign of K'ang-hsi, twenty-onecenturies and a half after the death of the sage, they amounted toeleven thousand males. But their ancestry is carried back througha period of equal extent, and genealogical tables are common, inwhich the descent of Confucius is traced down from Hwang-ti, inwhose reign the cycle was invented, B.C. 2637 [1].	The more moderate writers, however, content themselveswith exhibiting his ancestry back to the commencement of theChau dynasty, B.C. 1121. Among the relatives of the tyrant Chau,the last emperor of the Yin dynasty, was an elder brother, by aconcubine, named Ch'i [2], who is celebrated by Confucius, Ana.XVIII. i, under the title of the viscount of Wei. Foreseeing theimpending ruin of their family, Ch'i withdrew from the court; andsubsequently he was invested by the emperor Ch'ang, the secondof the house of Chau, with the principality of Sung, whichembraced the eastern portion of the present province of Ho-nan,that he might there continue the sacrifices to the sovereigns ofYin. Ch'i was followed as duke of Sung by a younger brother, inwhose line the succession continued. His great-grandson, the dukeMin [3], wasl See Memoires concernant les Chinois, Tome XII, p. 447 et seq.Father Amiot states, p. 501, that he had seen the representativeof the family, who succeeded to the dignity of ?l?t?? in the ninthyear of Ch'ien-lung, A.D. 1744. The last duke, not the present, wasvisited in our own time by the late Dr. Williamson and Mr. ConsulMarkham. It is hardly necessary that I should say here, that thename Confucius is merely the Chinese characters ???l (K'ung Fu-tsze, 'The master K'ung') Latinized.2 ??.3 ?]??.followed, B.C. 908, by a younger brother, leaving, however, twosons, Fu-fu Ho [1] and Fang-sze [2]. Fu Ho [3] resigned his right tothe dukedom in favour of Fang-sze, who put his uncle to death inB.C. 893, and became master of the State. He is known as the dukeLi [4], and to his elder brother belongs the honour of having thesage among his descendants.	Three descents from Fu Ho, we find Chang K'ao-fu [5], whowas a distinguished officer under the dukes Tai, Wu, and Hsuan [6](B.C. 799-728). He is still celebrated for his humility, and for hisliterary tastes. We have accounts of him as being incommunication with the Grand-historiographer of the kingdom,and engaged in researches about its ancient poetry, thus settingan example of one of the works to which Confucius gave himself[7]. K'ao gave birth to K'ung-fu Chia [8], from whom the surname ofK'ung took its rise. Five generations had now elapsed since thedukedom was held in the direct line of his ancestry, and it wasaccording to the rule in such cases that the branch should ceaseits connexion with the ducal stem, and merge among the peopleunder a new surname. K'ung Chia was Master of the Horse in Sung,and an officer of well-known loyalty and probity. Unfortunatelyfor himself, he had a wife of surpassing beauty, of whom thechief minister of the State, by name Hwa Tu [9], happened on oneoccasion to get a glimpse. Determined to possess her, hecommenced a series of intrigues, which ended, B.C. 710, in themurder of Chia and of the ruling duke Shang [10]. At the sametime, Tu secured the person of the lady, and hastened to hispalace with the prize, but on the way she had strangled herselfwith her girdle.	An enmity was thus commenced between the two familiesof K'ung and Hwa which the lapse of time did not obliterate, andthe latter being the more powerful of the two, Chia's great-grandson withdrew into the State of Lu to avoid their persecution.There he was appointed commandant of the city of Fang [11], andis known1 ?????.2 ??(al. ??) ??.3 I drop here the ?? (second tone), which seems to have been usedin those times in a manner equivalent to our Mr.4 ?F??.5 ????j; ?j is used in the same way as ??; see note 3.6 ??, ?Z, ??, ?T??.7 See the ?|?y, and ??|???; quoted in Chiang Yung's (?u??) Life ofConfucius, which forms a part of the ?m????.8 ?????.9 ???.10 ???.11 ??.in history by the name of Fang-shu [1]. Fang-shu gave birth to Po-hsia [2], and from him came Shu-liang Heh [3], the father ofConfucius. Heh appears in the history of the times as a soldier ofgreat prowess and daring bravery. In the year B.C. 562, whenserving at the siege of a place called Peh-yang [4], a party of theassailants made their way in at a gate which had purposely beenleft open, and no sooner were they inside than the portcullis wasdropped. Heh was just entering; and catching the massivestructure with both his hands, he gradually by dint of mainstrength raised it and held it up, till his friends had made theirescape.	Thus much on the ancestry of the sage. Doubtless he couldtrace his descent in the way which has been indicated up to theimperial house of Yin, nor was there one among his ancestorsduring the rule of Chau to whom he could not refer withsatisfaction. They had been ministers and soldiers of Sung and Lu,all men of worth, and in Chang K'ao, both for his humility andliterary researches, Confucius might have special complacency.	2. Confucius was the child of Shu-liang Heh's old age. Thesoldier had married in early life, but his wife brought him only[Sidebar] From his birth to his first public employments. B.C. 551-531.daughters,-- to the number of nine, and no son. By a concubine hehad a son, named Mang-p'i, and also Po-ni [5], who proved acripple, so that, when he was over seventy years, Heh sought asecond wife in the Yen family [6], from which came subsequentlyYen Hui, the favourite disciple of his son. There were threedaughters in the family, the youngest being named Chang-tsai [7].Their father said to them, 'Here is the commandant of Tsau. Hisfather and grandfather were only scholars, but his ancestorsbefore them were descendants of the sage sovereigns. He is a manten feet high [8], and of extraordinary prowess, and I am verydesirous of his alliance. Though he is old and austere, you needhave no misgivings about him. Which of you three will be hiswife? 'The two elder daughters were silent, but Chang-tsai said,'Why do you ask us, father? It is for you to determine.' 'Very well,'said her father in reply, 'you will do.' Chang-tsai, accordingly,became Heh's wife, and in due time gave1 ????.2 ?B?L.3 ?????.4 ?M??.5 ?s??, ?@?r?B??.6 ?C??.7 ?x?b.8 ??H, ?????Q??. See, on the length of the ancient foot, Ana. VIII.vi, but the point needs a more sifting investigation than it has yetreceived.birth to Confucius, who received the name of Ch'iu, and wassubsequently styled Chung-ni [1]. The event happened on thetwenty-first day of the tenth month of the twenty-first year ofthe duke Hsiang, of Lu, being the twentieth year of the emperorLing, B.C. 552 [2]. The birth-place was in the district of Tsau [3],of which Heh was the governor. It was somewhere within thelimits of the present department of Yen-chau in Shan-tung, butthe honour of being the exact spot is claimed for two places intwo different districts of the department.	The notices which we have of Confucius's early years arevery scanty. When he was in his third year his father died. It isrelated of him, that as a boy he used to play at the arrangement of1 ?W??, ?r??. The legends say that Chang-tsai fearing lest sheshould not have a son, in consequence of her husband's age,privately ascended the Ni-ch'iu hill to pray for the boon, and thatwhen she had obtained it, she commemorated the fact in thenames -- Ch'iu and Chung-ni. But the cripple, Mang-p'i, hadprevious been styled Po-ni. There was some reason, previous toConfucius's birth, for using the term ni in the family. As might beexpected, the birth of the sage is surrounded with manyprodigious occurrences. One account is, that the husband and wifeprayed together for a son in a dell of mount Ni. As Chang-tsaiwent up the hill, the leaves of the trees and plants all erectedthemselves, and bent downwards on her return. That night shedreamt the black Ti appeared, and said to her, 'You shall have ason, a sage, and you must bring him forth in a hollow mulberrytree.' One day during her pregnancy, she fell into a dreamy state,and saw five old men in the hall, who called themselves theessences of the five planets, and led an animal which looked likea small cow with one horn, and was covered with scales like adragon. This creature knelt before Chang-tsai, and cast forth fromits mouth a slip of jade, on which was the inscription,-- 'The sonof the essence of water shall succeed to the decaying Chau, andbe a throneless king.' Chang-tsai tied a piece of embroideredribbon about its horn, and the vision disappeared. When Heh wastold of it, he said, 'The creature must be the Ch'i-lin.' As her timedrew near, Chang-tsai asked her husband if there was any place inthe neighborhood called 'the hollow mulberry tree.' He told herthere was a dry cave in the south hill, which went by that name.Then she said, 'I will go and be confined there.' Her husband wassurprised, but when made acquainted with her former dream, hemade the necessary arrangements. On the night when the childwas born, two dragons came and kept watch on the left and rightof the hill, and two spirit-ladies appeared in the air, pouring outfragrant odors, as if to bathe Chang-tsai; and as soon as the birthtook place, a spring of clear warm water bubbled up from thefloor of the cave, which dried up again when the child had beenwashed in it. The child was of an extraordinary appearance; witha mouth like the sea, ox lips, a dragon's back, &c. &c. On the top ofhis head was a remarkable formation, in consequence of which hewas named Ch'iu, &c. See the ?C???, Bk. lxxviii.--Sze-ma Ch'ienseems to make Confucius to have been illegitimate, saying thatHeh and Miss Yen cohabited in the wilderness (???X). Chiang Yungsays that the phrase has reference simply to the disparity oftheir ages.2 Sze-ma Ch'ien says that Confucius was born in the twenty-second year of duke Hsiang, B.C. 550. He is followed by Chu Hsi inthe short sketch of Confucius's life prefixed to the Lun Yu, and by'The Annals of the Empire' (???N?????), published with imperialsanction in the reign of Chia-ch'ing. (To this latter work I havegenerally referred for my dates.) The year assigned in the textabove rests on the authority of Ku-liang and Kung-yang, the twocommentators on the Ch'un-Ch'iu. With regard to the month,however, the tenth is that assigned by Ku-liang, while Kung-yangnames the eleventh.3 Tsau is written ??, ??, ??, and ?Q.sacrificial vessels, and at postures of ceremony. Of his schoolingwe have no reliable account. There is a legend, indeed, that atseven he went to school to Yen P'ing-chung [1], but it must berejected as P'ing-chung belonged to the State of Ch'i. He tells ushimself that at fifteen he bent his mind to learning [2]; but thecondition of the family was one of poverty. At a subsequentperiod, when people were astonished at the variety of hisknowledge, he explained it by saying, 'When I was young, mycondition was low, and therefore I acquired my ability in manythings; but they were mean matters [3].'	When he was nineteen, he married a lady from the State ofSung, of the Chien-kwan family [4], and in the following year hisson Li was born. On the occasion of this event, the duke Chao senthim a present of a couple of carp. It was to signify his sense ofhis prince's favour, that he called his son Li (The Carp), andafterwards gave him the designation of Po-yu [5] (Fish Primus).No mention is made of the birth of any other children, though weknow, from Ana. V. i, that he had at least one daughter. We knowalso, from an inscription on her grave, that he had one otherdaughter, who died when she was quite young. The fact of the dukeof Lu's sending him a gift on the occasion of Li's birth, shows thathe was not unknown, but was already commanding publicattention and the respect of the great.	It was about this time, probably in the year after hismarriage, that Confucius took his first public employment, askeeper of the stores of grain [6], and in the following year he wasput in charge of the public fields and lands [7]. Mencius adducesthese employments in illustration of his doctrine that thesuperior man may at times take office on account of his poverty,but must confine himself in such a case to places of smallemolument, and aim at nothing but the discharge of their humbleduties. According to him. Confucius, as keeper of stores, said, 'Mycalculations must all be right:-- that is all I have to care about;'and when in charge of the public fields, he said, 'The oxen andsheep must be fat and strong and1 ?????.2 Ana. II. iv.3 Ana. IX. vi.4 ????????x??.5 ?W???U, ??r?B??.6 ???e?O. This is Mencius's account. Sze-ma Ch'ien says ?????u??O,but his subsequent words ??q?? show that the office was thesame.7 Mencius calls this office ????, while Sze-ma Ch'ien says ???q?O.superior:-- that is all I have to care about [1].' It does not appearwhether these offices were held by Confucius in the directemployment of the State, or as a dependent of the Chi family inwhose jurisdiction he lived. The present of the carp from the dukemay incline us to suppose the former.	3. In his twenty-second year, Confucius commenced hislabors as a public teacher, and his house became a resort foryoung and inquiring spirits, who wished to learn the doctrines ofantiquity.[Sidebar] Commencement of his labors as a teacher. The death ofhis mother. B.C. 531-527.However small the fee his pupils were able to afford, he neverrefused his instructions [2]. All that he required, was an ardentdesire for improvement, and some degree of capacity. 'I do notopen up the truth,' he said, 'to one who is not eager to getknowledge, nor help out any one who is not anxious to explainhimself. When I have presented one corner of a subject to any one,and he cannot from it learn the other three, I do not repeat mylesson [3].'	His mother died in the year B.C. 527, and he resolved thather body should lie in the same grave with that of his father, andthat their common resting-place should be in Fang, the first homeof the K'ung in Lu. But here a difficulty presented itself. Hisfather's coffin had been for twenty years where it had first beendeposited, off the road of The Five Fathers, in the vicinity ofTsau:-- would it be right in him to move it? He was relieved fromthis perplexity by an old woman of the neighborhood, who told himthat the coffin had only just been put into the ground, as atemporary arrangement, and not regularly buried. On learning this,he carried his purpose into execution. Both coffins were conveyedto Fang, and put in the ground together, with no intervening spacebetween them, as was the custom in some States. And now came anew perplexity. He said to himself, 'In old times, they had graves,but raised no tumulus over them. But I am a man, who belongsequally to the north and the south, the east and the west. I musthave something by which I can remember the place.' Accordinglyhe raised a mound, four feet high, over the grave, and returnedhome, leaving a party of his disciples to see everything properlycompleted. In the meantime there came on a heavy storm of rain,and it was a considerable time before the disciples joined him.'What makes you so late?' he asked. 'The grave in Fang fell down,'they said. He made no reply, and they repeated their1 Mencius, V. Pt. II. v. 4.2 Ana. VII. vii.3 Ana. VII. viii.answer three times, when he burst into tears, and said, 'Ah! theydid not make their graves so in antiquity [1].' 'Confucius mournedfor his mother the regular period of three years,-- three yearsnominally, but in fact only twenty-seven months. Five days afterthe mourning was expired, he played on his lute, but could notsing. It required other five days before he could accompany aninstrument with his voice [2].	Some writers have represented Confucius as teaching hisdisciples important lessons from the manner in which he buriedhis mother, and having a design to correct irregularities in theordinary funeral ceremonies of the time. These things arealtogether 'without book.' We simply have a dutiful son paying thelast tribute of affection to a good parent. In one point he departsfrom the ancient practice, raising a mound over the grave, andwhen the fresh earth gives way from a sudden rain, he is moved totears, and seems to regret his innovation. This sets Confuciusvividly before us,-- a man of the past as much as of the present,whose own natural feelings were liable to be hampered in theirdevelopment by the traditions of antiquity which he consideredsacred. It is important, however, to observe the reason which hegave for rearing the mound. He had in it a presentiment of much ofhis future course. He was 'a man of the north, the south, the east,and the west.' He might not confine himself to any one State. Hewould travel, and his way might be directed to some 'wise ruler,'whom his counsels would conduct to a benevolent sway thatwould break forth on every side till it transformed the empire.	4. When the mourning for his mother was over, Confuciusremained in Lu, but in what special capacity we do not know.Probably he continued to encourage the resort of[Sidebar] He learns music; visits the court of Chau; and returns toLu.B.C. 527-517.inquirers to whom he communicated instruction, and pursued hisown researches into the history, literature, and institutions ofthe empire. In the year B.C. 525, the chief of the small State ofT'an [3], made his appearance at the court of Lu, and discoursed ina wonderful manner, at a feast given to him by the duke, about thenames which the most ancient sovereigns, from Hwang-tidownwards, gave to their1 Li Chi, II. Sect I. i. 10; Sect. II. iii. 30; Pt. I. i. 6. See also thediscussion of those passages in Chiang Yung's 'Life of Confucius.'2 Li Chi, II. Sect. I. i. 23.3 See the Ch'un Ch'iu, under the seventh year of duke Chao,-- ??, ??l???.ministers. The sacrifices to the emperor Shao-hao, the next indescent from Hwang-ti, were maintained in T'an, so that the chieffancied that he knew all about the abstruse subject on which hediscoursed. Confucius, hearing about the matter, waited on thevisitor, and learned from him all that he had to communicate [1].	To the year B.C. 525, when Confucius was twenty-nine yearsold, is referred his studying music under a famous master of thename of Hsiang [2]. He was approaching his thirtieth year when, ashe tells us, 'he stood [3]' firm, that is, in his convictions on thesubjects of learning to which he had bent his mind fifteen yearsbefore. Five years more, however, were still to pass by, beforethe anticipation mentioned in the conclusion of the last paragraphbegan to receive its fulfillment [4], though we may conclude fromthe way in which it was brought about that he was growing allthe time in the estimation of the thinking minds in his nativeState.	In the twenty-fourth year of duke Chao, B.C. 518, one of theprincipal ministers of Lu, known by the name of Mang Hsi, died.Seventeen years before, he had painfully felt his ignorance ofceremonial observances, and had made it his subsequent businessto make himself acquainted with them. On his deathbed, headdressed his chief officer, saying, 'A knowledge of propriety isthe stem of a man. Without it he has no means of standing firm. Ihave heard that there is one K'ung Ch'iu, who is thoroughly versedin it. He is a descendant of sages, and though the line of hisfamily was extinguished in Sung, among his ancestors there wereFu-fu Ho, who resigned the State to his brother, and Chang K'ao-fu, who was distinguished for his humility. Tsang Heh hasobserved that if sage men of intelligent virtue do not attain toeminence, distinguished men are sure to appear among theirposterity. His words are now to be verified, I think, in K'ung Ch'iu.After my death, you must1 This rests on the respectable authority of Tso Ch'iu-ming'sannotations on the Ch'un Ch'iu, but I must consider it apocryphal.The legend-writers have fashioned a journey to T'an. Theslightest historical intimation becomes a text with them, onwhich they enlarge to the glory of the sage. Amiot has reproducedand expanded their romancings, and others, such as Pauthier(Chine, pp. 121-183) and Thornton (History of China, vol. i. pp.151-215), have followed in his wake.2 ?v??. See the 'Narratives of the School,' ???T, art ?G???; but theaccount there given is not more credible than the chief of T'an'sexpositions.3 Ana. II. iv.4 The journey to Chau is placed by Sze-ma Ch'ien beforeConfucius's holding of his first official employments, and Chu Hsiand most other writers follow him. It is a great error, and arisenfrom a misunderstanding of the passage from the ????? upon thesubject.tell Ho-chi to go and study proprieties under him [1].' Inconsequence of this charge, Ho-chi [2], Mang Hsi's son, whoappears in the Analects under the name of Mang I [3], and abrother, or perhaps on]y a near relative, named Nan-kung Chang-shu [4], became disciples of Confucius. Their wealth and standingin the State gave him a position which he had not had before, andhe told Chang-shu of a wish which he had to visit the court ofChau, and especially to confer on the subject of ceremonies andmusic with Lao Tan. Chang-shu represented the matter to the dukeCh'ao, who put a carriage and a pair of horses at Confucius'sdisposal for the expedition [5].	At this time the court of Chau was in the city of Lo [6]. inthe present department of Ho-nan of the province of the samename. The reigning sovereign is known by the title of Chang [7],but the sovereignty was little more than nominal. The state ofChina was then analogous to that of one of the European kingdomsduring the prevalence of the feudal system. At the commencementof the dynasty, the various states of the kingdom had beenassigned to the relatives and adherents of the reigning family.There were thirteen principalities of greater note, and a largenumber of smaller dependencies. During the vigorous youth of thedynasty, the sovereign or lord paramount exercised an effectivecontrol over the various chiefs, but with the lapse of time therecame weakness and decay. The chiefs --corresponding somewhatto the European dukes, earls, marquises, barons, &c. -- quarrelledand warred among themselves, and the stronger among thembarely acknowledged their subjection to the sovereign. A similarcondition of things prevailed in each particular State. There there[sic] were hereditary ministerial families, who were continuallyencroaching on the authority of their rulers, and the heads ofthose families again were frequently hard pressed by theirinferior officers. Such was the state of China in Confucius's time.The reader must have it clearly before him, if he wouldunderstand the position of the sage, and the reforms which, weshall find, it was subsequently his object to introduce.	Arrived at Chau, he had no intercourse with the court or anyof1 See ?????, ?L???C?~.2 ???.3 ?s?t?l.4 ?n?c?q??.5 The ?a?y makes Chang-shu accompany Confucius to Chau. It isdifficult to understand this, if Chang-shu were really a son ofMang Hsi who had died that year.6 ??.7 ?q?? (B.C. 519-475)the principal ministers. He was there not as a politician, but asan inquirer about the ceremonies and maxims of the founders ofthe existing dynasty. Lao Tan [1], whom he had wished to see,generally acknowledged as the founder of the Taoists, orRationalistic sect (so called), which has maintained its ground inopposition to the followers of Confucius, was then a curator ofthe royal library. They met and freely interchanged their views,but no reliable account of their conversations has been preserved.In the fifth Book of the Li Chi, which is headed 'The philosopherTsang asked,' Confucius refers four times to the views of Lao-tsze on certain points of funeral ceremonies, and in the'Narratives of the School,' Book XXIV, he tells Chi K'ang what hehad heard from him about 'The Five Tis,' but we may hope theirconversation turned also on more important subjects. Sze-maCh'ien, favourable to Lao-tsze, makes him lecture his visitor inthe following style:-- 'Those whom you talk about are dead, andtheir bones are moldered to dust; only their words remain. Whenthe superior man gets his time, he mounts aloft; but when thetime is against him, he moves as if his feet were entangled. Ihave heard that a good merchant, though he has rich treasuresdeeply stored, appears as if he were poor, and that the superiorman whose virtue is complete, is yet to outward seeming stupid.Put away your proud air and many desires, your insinuating habitand wild will [2]. These are of no advantage to you. This is allwhich I have to tell you.' On the other hand, Confucius is made tosay to his disciples, 'I know how birds can fly, how fishes canswim, and how animals can run. But the runner may be snared, theswimmer may be hooked, and the flyer may be shot by the arrow.But there is the dragon. I cannot tell how he mounts on the windthrough the clouds, and rises to heaven. Today I have seen Lao-tsze, and can only compare him to the dragon [3].'	While at Lo, Confucius walked over the grounds set apart forthe great sacrifices to Heaven and Earth; inspected the pattern ofthe Hall of Light, built to give audience in to the princes of thekingdom; and examined all the arrangements of the ancestraltemple and the court. From the whole he received a profound1 According to Sze-ma Ch'ien, Tan was the posthumous epithet ofthis individual, whose surname was Li (??), name R (??), anddesignation Po-yang (?B??).2 ?h?A?P?]??.3 See the ?v?O, ?C???T, and compare the remarks attributed toLao-tsze in the account of the K'ung family near the beginning.impression. 'Now,' said he with a sigh, 'I know the sage wisdom ofthe duke of Chau, and how the House of Chau attained to the royalsway [1].' On the walls of the Hall of Light were paintings of theancient sovereigns from Yao and Shun downwards, theircharacters appearing in the representations of them, and words ofpraise or warning being appended. There was also a picture of theduke of Chau sitting with his infant nephew, the king Ch'ang, uponhis knees, to give audience to all the princes. Confucius surveyedthe scene with silent delight, and then said to his followers,'Here you see how Chau became so great. As we use a glass toexamine the forms of things, so must we study antiquity in orderto understand the present time [2].' In the hall of the ancestraltemple, there was a metal statue of a man with three clasps uponhis mouth, and his back covered over with an enjoyable homily onthe duty of keeping a watch upon the lips. Confucius turned to hisdisciples and said, 'Observe it, my children. These words are true,and commend themselves to our feelings [3].'	About music he made inquiries at Ch'ang Hung, to whom thefollowing remarks are attributed:-- 'I have observed about Chung-ni many marks of a sage. He has river eyes and a dragon forehead,-- the very characteristics of Hwang-ti. His arms are long, hisback is like a tortoise, and he is nine feet six inches in height,--the very semblance of T'ang the Completer. When he speaks, hepraises the ancient kings. He moves along the path of humility andcourtesy. He has heard of every subject, and retains with a strongmemory. His knowledge of things seems inexhaustible.-- Have wenot in him the rising of a sage [4]?'	I have given these notices of Confucius at the court of Chau,more as being the only ones I could find, than because I put muchfaith in them. He did not remain there long, but returned the sameyear to Lu, and continued his work of teaching. His fame wasgreatly increased; disciples came to him from different parts,till their number amounted to three thousand. Several of thosewho have come down to us as the most distinguished among hisfollowers, however, were yet unborn, and the statement justgiven may be considered as an exaggeration. We are not toconceive of the disciples as forming a community, and livingtogether. Parties1 2 3 See the ?a?y, ???G, art. ?[?P.4 Quoted by Chiang Yung from the 'Narratives of the School.'of them may have done so. We shall find Confucius hereafteralways moving amid a company of admiring pupils; but the greaternumber must have had their proper avocations and ways of living,and would only resort to the Master, when they wished speciallyto ask his counsel or to learn of him.	5. In the year succeeding the return to Lu, that State fellinto great confusion. There were three Families in it, allconnected irregularly with the ducal House, which had long keptthe rulers in a condition of dependency. They appear frequently inthe Analects as the Chi clan, the Shu, and the Mang; and whileConfucius freely spoke of their[Sidebar] He withdraws to Chi and returns to Lu the followingyear. B.C. 515, 516.usurpations [1], he was a sort of dependent of the Chi family, andappears in frequent communication with members of all the three.In the year B.C. 517, the duke Chao came to open hostilities withthem, and being worsted, fled into Ch'i, the State adjoining Lu onthe north. Thither Confucius also repaired, that he might avoid theprevailing disorder of his native State. Ch'i was then under thegovernment of a ruler (in rank a marquis, but historically calledduke) , afterwards styled Ching [2], who 'had a thousand teams,each of four horses, but on the day of his death the people did notpraise him for a single virtue [3].' His chief minister, however,was Yen Ying [4], a man of considerable ability and worth. At hiscourt the music of the ancient sage-emperor, Shun, originallybrought to Ch'i from the State of Ch'an [5], was still preserved.	According to the 'Narratives of the School,' an incidentoccurred on the way to Ch'i, which I may transfer to these pagesas a good specimen of the way in which Confucius turnedoccurring matters to account, in his intercourse with hisdisciples. As he was passing by the side of the Tai mountain,there was a woman weeping and wailing by a grave. Confuciusbent forward in his carriage, and after listening to her for sometime, sent Tsze-lu to ask the cause of her grief. 'You weep, as ifyou had experienced sorrow upon sorrow,' said Tsze-lu. Thewoman replied, 'It is so. My husband's father was killed here by atiger, and my husband also; and now my son has met the samefate.' Confucius asked her why she did not remove from the place,and on her answering,' There is here no oppressive government,' heturned to his disciples, and said, 'My1 See Analects, III. i. ii, et al.2 ????.3 Ana. XVI. xii.4 ????. This is the same who was afterwards styled ?????.5 ??.children, remember this. Oppressive government is fiercer than atiger [1].'	As soon as he crossed the border from Lu, we are told hediscovered from the gait and manners of a boy, whom he sawcarrying a pitcher, the influence of the sages' music, and told thedriver of his carriage to hurry on to the capital [2]. Arrived there,he heard the strain, and was so ravished with it, that for threemonths he did not know the taste of flesh. 'I did not think,' hesaid, 'that music could have been made so excellent as this [3].'The duke Ching was pleased with the conferences which he hadwith him [4], and proposed to assign to him the town of Lin-ch'iu,from the revenues of which he might derive a sufficient support;but Confucius refused the gift, and said to his disciples, 'Asuperior man will only receive reward for services which he hasdone. I have given advice to the duke Ching, but he has not yetobeyed it, and now he would endow me with this place! Very far ishe from understanding me [5]!'	On one occasion the duke asked about government, andreceived the characteristic reply, 'There is government when theruler is ruler, and the minister is minister; when the father isfather, and the son is son [6].' I say that the reply ischaracteristic. Once, when Tsze-lu asked him what he wouldconsider the first thing to be done if entrusted with thegovernment of a State, Confucius answered, 'What is necessary isto rectify names [7].' The disciple thought the reply wide of themark, but it was substantially the same with what he said to themarquis Ching. There is a sufficient foundation in nature forgovernment in the several relations of society, and if those bemaintained and developed according to their relative significancy,it is sure to obtain. This was a first principle in the politicalethics of Confucius.	Another day the duke got to a similar inquiry the reply thatthe art of government lay in an economical use of the revenues;and being pleased, he resumed his purpose of retaining thephilosopher in his State, and proposed to assign to him the fieldsof Ni-ch'i. His1 See the ?a?y, ???|, art. ?????. I have translated, however, fromthe Li Chi, II. Sect. II. iii. 10, where the same incident is given,with some variations, and without saying when or where itoccurred.2 See the ???b, ???Q?E, p. 13.3 Ana. VII. xiii.4 Some of these are related in the 'Narratives of the School;'--about the burning of the ancestral shrine of the sovereign ??, anda one-footed bird which appeared hopping and flapping its wingsin Ch'i. They are plainly fabulous, though quoted in proof ofConfucius's sage wisdom. This reference to them is more thanenough.5 ?a?y, ???G, ????.6 Ana. XII. xi.7 Ana. XIII. iii.chief minister Yen Ying dissuaded him from the purpose, saying,'Those scholars are impracticable, and cannot be imitated. Theyare haughty and conceited of their own views, so that they willnot be content in inferior positions. They set a high value on allfuneral ceremonies, give way to their grief, and will waste theirproperty on great burials, so that they would only be injurious tothe common manners. This Mr. K'ung has a thousand peculiarities.It would take generations to exhaust all that he knows about theceremonies of going up and going down. This is not the time toexamine into his rules of propriety. If you, prince, wish to employhim to change the customs of Ch'i, you will not be making thepeople your primary consideration [1].'	I had rather believe that these were not the words of YenYing, but they must represent pretty correctly the sentiments ofmany of the statesmen of the time about Confucius. The duke ofCh'i got tired ere long of having such a monitor about him, andobserved. 'I cannot treat him as I would the chief of the Chifamily. I will treat him in a way between that accorded to thechief of the Chi, and that given to the chief of the Mang family.'Finally he said, 'I am old; I cannot use his doctrines [2].' Theseobservations were made directly to Confucius, or came to hishearing [3]. It was not consistent with his self-respect to remainlonger in Ch'i, and he returned to Lu [4].	6. Returned to Lu, he remained for the long period of aboutfifteen years without being engaged in any official employment.It[Sidebar] He remains without office in Lu, B.C. 516-501.was a time indeed of great disorder. The duke Chao continued arefugee in Ch'i, the government being in the hands of the greatFamilies, up to his death in B.C. 510, on which event the rightfulheir was set aside, and another member of the ducal House, knownto us by the title of Ting [5], substituted in his place. The rulingauthority of the principality became thus still more enfeebledthan it had been before, and, on the other hand, the chiefs of theChi, the Shu, and the Mang, could hardly keep their ground againsttheir own officers. Of those latter, the two most conspicuouswere Yang Hu [6], called also Yang Ho [7], and1 See the ?v?O, ??l?@?a, p. 2.2 Ana. XVIII. iii3  Sze-ma Ch'ien makes the first observation to have beenaddressed directly to Confucius.4 According to the above account Confucius was only once, and fora portion of two years, in Ch'i. For the refutation of contraryaccounts, see Chiang Yung's Life of the Sage.5 ?w??.6 ????.7 ???f.Kung-shan Fu-zao [1]. At one time Chi Hwan, the most powerful ofthe chiefs, was kept a prisoner by Yang Hu, and was obliged tomake terms with him in order to obtain his liberation. Confuciuswould give his countenance to none, as he disapproved of all, andhe studiously kept aloof from them. Of how he comported himselfamong them we have a specimen in the incident related in theAnalects, XVII. i.-- 'Yang Ho wished to see Confucius, butConfucius would not go to see him. On this, he sent a present of apig to Confucius, who, having chosen a time when Ho was not athome, went to pay his respects for the gift. He met him, however,on the way. "Come, let me speak with you," said the officer. "Canhe be called benevolent, who keeps his jewel in his bosom, andleaves his country to confusion?" Confucius replied, "No." "Can hebe called wise, who is anxious to be engaged in publicemployment, and yet is constantly losing the opportunity of beingso?" Confucius again said, "No." The other added, "The days andmonths are passing away; the years do not wait for us." Confuciussaid, "Right; I will go into office."' Chinese writers are eloquentin their praises of the sage for the combination of propriety,complaisance and firmness, which they see in his behavior in thismatter. To myself there seems nothing remarkable in it but asomewhat questionable dexterity. But it was well for the fame ofConfucius that his time was not occupied during those years withofficial services. He turned them to better account, prosecutinghis researches into the poetry, history, ceremonies, and music ofthe nation. Many disciples continued to resort to him, and thelegendary writers tell us how he employed their services indigesting the results of his studies. I must repeat, however, thatseveral of them, whose names are most famous, such as TsangShan, were as yet children, and Min Sun [2] was not born till B.C.500.	To this period we must refer the almost single instancewhich we have of the manner of Confucius's intercourse with hisson Li. 'Have you heard any lessons from your father differentfrom what we have all heard?' asked one of the disciples once ofLi. 'No,' said Li. 'He was standing alone once, when I was passingthrough the court below with hasty steps, and said to me, "Haveyou learned the Odes?" On my replying, "Not yet," he added, "If youdo not learn the Odes, you will not be fit to converse with."Another day,1 ???s???Z(?v?O, ?c).2 ?{?l.in the same place and the same way, he said to me, "Have you readthe rules of Propriety?" On my replying, "Not yet," he added, "Ifyou do not learn the rules of Propriety, your character cannot beestablished." I have heard only these two things from him.' Thedisciple was delighted and observed, 'I asked one thing, and I havegot three things. I have heard about the Odes. I have heard aboutthe rules of Propriety. I have also heard that the superior manmaintains a distant reserve towards his son [1].'	I can easily believe that this distant reserve was the rulewhich Confucius followed generally in his treatment of his son. Astern dignity is the quality which a father has to maintain uponhis system. It is not to be without the element of kindness, butthat must never go beyond the line of propriety. There is too littleroom left for the play and development of natural affection.	The divorce of his wife must also have taken place duringthese years, if it ever took place at all, which is a disputed point.The curious reader will find the question discussed in the noteson the second Book of the Li Chi. The evidence inclines, I think,against the supposition that Confucius did put his wife away.When she died, at a period subsequent to the present, Li kept onweeping aloud for her after the period for such a demonstrationof grief had expired, when Confucius sent a message to him thathis sorrow must be subdued, and the obedient son dried his tears[2]. We are glad to know that on one occasion the death of hisfavourite disciple, Yen Hui -- the tears of Confucius himselfwould flow over and above the measure of propriety [3].	7. We come to the short period of Confucius's official life.In the[Sidebar] He holds office. B.C. 500-496.year B.C. 501, things had come to a head between the chiefs of thethree Families and their ministers, and had resulted in the defeatof the latter. In that year the resources of Yang Hu wereexhausted, and he fled into Ch'i, so that the State was deliveredfrom its greatest troubler, and the way was made more clear forConfucius to go into office, should an opportunity occur. It soonpresented itself. Towards the end of that year he was made chiefmagistrate of the town of Chung-tu [4].1 Ana. XVI. xiii.2 See the Li Chi, II. Pt. I. i. 27.3 Ana. XI. ix.4 ?????_. Amiot says this was 'la ville meme ou le Souveraintenoit sa Cour' (Vie de Confucius, p. 147). He is followed of courseby Thornton and Pauthier. My reading has not shown me that suchwas the case. In the notes to K'ang-hsi's edition of the 'FiveChing,' Li Chi, II Sect. I. iii. 4, it is simply said-- 'Chung-tu,-- thename of a town of Lu. It afterwards belonged to Ch'i when it wascalled Ping-lu (????).'	Just before he received this appointment, a circumstanceoccurred of which we do not well know what to make. When Yang-hu fled into Ch'i, Kung-shan Fu-zao, who had been confederatewith him, continued to maintain an attitude of rebellion, and heldthe city of Pi against the Chi family. Thence he sent a message toConfucius inviting him to join him, and the Sage seemed soinclined to go that his disciple Tsze-lu remonstrated with him,saying, 'Indeed you cannot go! why must you think of going to seeKung-shan?' Confucius replied, 'Can it be without some reasonthat he has invited me? If any one employ me, may I not make aneastern Chau [1]?'	The upshot, however, was that he did not go, and I cannotsuppose that he had ever any serious intention of doing so. Amidthe general gravity of his intercourse with his followers, theregleam out a few instances of quiet pleasantry, when he amusedhimself by playing with their notions about him. This wasprobably one of them.	As magistrate of Chung-tu he produced a marvellousreformation of the manners of the people in a short time.According to the 'Narratives of the School,' he enacted rules forthe nourishing of the living and all observances to the dead.Different food was assigned to the old and the young, anddifferent burdens to the strong and the weak. Males and femaleskept apart from each other in the streets. A thing dropped on theroad was not picked up. There was no fraudulent carving ofvessels. Inner coffins were made four inches thick, and the outerones five. Graves were made on the high grounds, no mounds beingraised over them, and no trees planted about them. Within twelvemonths, the princes of the other States all wished to imitate hisstyle of administration [2].	The duke Ting, surprised at what he saw, asked whether hisrules could be employed to govern a whole State, and Confuciustold him that they might be applied to the whole kingdom. On thisthe duke appointed him assistant-superintendent of Works [3], inwhich capacity he surveyed the lands of the State, and made manyimprovements in agriculture. From this he was quickly mademinister of Crime [4], and the appointment was enough to put anend to crime. There was no necessity to put the penal laws inexecution. No offenders showed themselves [5].1 Ana. XVII. v.2 ?a?y, Bk. I.3 ?q??. This office, however, was held by the chief of the MangFamily. We must understand that Confucius was only an assistantto him, or perhaps acted for him.4 ?j?q?F.5 ?a?y, Bk. I.	These indiscriminating eulogies are of little value. Oneincident, related in the annotations of Tso-shih on the Ch'un-Ch'iu[1], commends itself at once to our belief, as in harmony withConfucius's character. The chief of the Chi, pursuing with hisenmity the duke Chao, even after his death, had placed his graveapart from the graves of his predecessors; and Confuciussurrounded the ducal cemetery with a ditch so as to include thesolitary resting-place, boldly telling the chief that he did it tohide his disloyalty [2]. But he signalized himself most of all inB.C. 500, by his behavior at an interview between the dukes of Luand Ch'i, at a place called Shih-ch'i [3], and Chia-ku [4], in thepresent district of Lai-wu, in the department of T'ai-an [5].Confucius was present as master of ceremonies on the part of Lu,and the meeting was professedly pacific. The two princes were toform a covenant of alliance. The principal officer on the part ofCh'i, however, despising Confucius as 'a man of ceremonies,without courage,' had advised his sovereign to make the duke ofLu a prisoner, and for this purpose a band of the half-savageoriginal inhabitants of the place advanced with weapons to thestage where the two dukes were met. Confucius understood thescheme, and said to the opposite party, 'Our two princes are metfor a pacific object. For you to bring a band of savage vassals todisturb the meeting with their weapons, is not the way in whichCh'i can expect to give law to the princes of the kingdom. Thesebarbarians have nothing to do with our Great Flowery land. Suchvassals may not interfere with our covenant. Weapons are out ofplace at such a meeting. As before the spirits, such conduct isunpropitious. In point of virtue, it is contrary to right. Asbetween man and man, it is not polite.' The duke of Ch'i orderedthe disturbers off, but Confucius withdrew, carrying the duke ofLu with him. The business proceeded, notwithstanding, and whenthe words of the alliance were being read on the part of Ch'i,-- 'So be it to Lu, if it contribute not 300 chariots of war to the helpof Ch'i, when its army goes across its borders,' a messenger fromConfucius added, 'And so be it to us, if we obey your orders,unless you return to us the fields on the south of the Wan.' At theconclusion of the ceremonies, the prince of Ch'i wanted to give agrand entertainment, but Confucius demonstrated that such athing would be1 ????, ?w?????~.2 ?a?y, Bk. I.3 ???.4 ????.5 ???w??, ?????.contrary to the established rules of propriety, his real objectbeing to keep his sovereign out of danger. In this way the twoparties separated, they of Ch'i filled with shame at being foiledand disgraced by 'the man of ceremonies;' and the result was thatthe lands of Lu which had been appropriated by Ch'i were restored[1].	For two years more Confucius held the office of minister ofCrime. Some have supposed that he was further raised to thedignity of chief minister of the State [2], but that was not thecase. One instance of the manner in which he executed hisfunctions is worth recording. When any matter came before him,he took the opinion of different individuals upon it, and in givingjudgment would say, 'I decide according to the view of so and so.'There was an approach to our jury system in the plan, Confucius'sobject being to enlist general sympathy, and carry the publicjudgment with him in his administration of justice. A fatherhaving brought some charge against his son, Confucius kept themboth in prison for three months, without making any difference infavour of the father, and then wished to dismiss them both. Thehead of the Chi was dissatisfied, and said, 'You are playing withme, Sir minister of Crime. Formerly you told me that in a State ora family filial duty was the first thing to be insisted on. Whathinders you now from putting to death this unfilial son as anexample to all the people?' Confucius with a sigh replied, 'Whensuperiors fail in their duty, and yet go to put their inferiors todeath, it is not right. This father has not taught his son to befilial; to listen to his charge would be to slay the guiltless. Themanners of the age have been long in a sad condition; we cannotexpect the people not to be transgressing the laws [3].'	At this time two of his disciples, Tsze-lu and Tsze-yu,entered the employment of the Chi family, and lent theirinfluence, the former especially, to forward the plans of theirmaster. One great cause of disorder in the State was the fortifiedcities held by the three chiefs, in which they could defy thesupreme authority, and were in turn defied themselves by theirofficers. Those cities were like the castles of the barons ofEngland in the time of the Norman1 This meeting at Chia-ku is related in Sze-ma Ch'ien, the'Narratives of the school,' and Ku-liang, with many exaggerations.I have followed ?????, ?w???Q?~.2 The ?a?y says Bk. II, ??l???|?q?F, ????. But he was a ?? only inthe sense of an assistant of ceremonies, as at the meeting inChia-ku, described above.3 See the ?a?y, Bk. II.kings. Confucius had their destruction very much at heart, andpartly by the influence of persuasion, and partly by the assistingcounsels of Tsze-lu, he accomplished his object in regard to Pi[1], the chief city of the Chi, and Hau [2], the chief city of the Shu.	It does not appear that he succeeded in the same way indismantling Ch'ang [3], the chief city of the Mang [4]; but hisauthority in the State greatly increased. 'He strengthened theducal House and weakened the private Families. He exalted thesovereign, and depressed the ministers. A transforminggovernment went abroad. Dishonesty and dissoluteness wereashamed and hid their heads. Loyalty and good faith became thecharacteristics of the men, and chastity and docility those of thewomen. Strangers came in crowds from other States [5].'Confucius became the idol of the people, and flew in songsthrough their mouths [6].	But this sky of bright promise was soon overcast. As thefame of the reformations in Lu went abroad, the neighboringprinces began to be afraid. The duke of Ch'i said, 'With Confuciusat the head of its government, Lu will become supreme among theStates, and Ch'i which is nearest to it will be the first swallowedup. Let us propitiate it by a surrender of territory.' One of hisministers proposed that they should first try to separate betweenthe sage and his sovereign, and to effect this, they hit upon thefollowing scheme. Eighty beautiful girls, with musical anddancing accomplishments, and a hundred and twenty of the finesthorses that could be found, were selected, and sent as a presentto duke Ting. They were put up at first outside the city, and ChiHwan having gone in disguise to see them, forgot the lessons ofConfucius, and took the duke to look at the bait. They were bothcaptivated. The women were received, and the sage wasneglected. For three days the duke gave no audience to hisministers. 'Master,' said Tsze-lu to Confucius, 'it is time for youto be going.' But Confucius was very unwilling to leave. The springwas coming on, when the sacrifice to Heaven would be offered,and he determined to wait and see whether the1 ?O.2 ?.3 ??.4 In connexion with these events, the 'Narratives of the School'and Sze-ma Ch'ien mention the summary punishment inflicted byConfucius on an able but unscrupulous and insidious officer theShaou chang, Maou (????f). His judgment and death occupy aconspicuous place in the legendary accounts. But the Analects,Tsze-sze, Mencius, and Tso Ch'iu-ming are all silent about it, andChiang Yung rightly rejects it as one of the many narrativesinvented to exalt the sage.5 See the ?a?y, Bk. II.6 See ???O?l, quoted by Chiang Yung.solemnization of that would bring the duke back to his right mind.No such result followed. The ceremony was hurried through, andportions of the offerings were not sent round to the variousministers, according to the established custom. Confuciusregretfully took his departure, going away slowly and by easystages [1]. He would have welcomed a message of recall. But theduke continued in his abandonment, and the sage went forth tothirteen weary years of homeless wandering.	8. On leaving Lu, Confucius first bent his steps westward tothe State of Wei, situate about where the present provinces ofChih-li and Ho-nan adjoin.[Sidebar] He wanders from State to State. B.C. 497-484.He was now in his fifty-sixth year, and felt depressed andmelancholy. As he went along, he gave expression to his feelingsin verse:--'Fain would I still look towards Lu,But this Kwei hill cuts off my view.With an axe, I'd hew the thickets through:--Vain thought! 'gainst the hill I nought can do;'and again,--'Through the valley howls the blast,Drizzling rain falls thick and fast.Homeward goes the youthful bride,O'er the wild, crowds by her side.How is it, O azure Heaven,From my home I thus am driven,Through the land my way to trace,With no certain dwelling-place?Dark, dark; the minds of men!Worth in vain comes to their ken.Hastens on my term of years;Old age, desolate, appears [2],'	A number of his disciples accompanied him, and his sadnessinfected them. When they arrived at the borders of Wei at a placecalled I, the warden sought an interview, and on coming out fromthe sage, he tried to comfort the disciples, saying, 'My friends,why are you distressed at your master's loss of office? The worldhas been long without the principles of truth and right; Heaven isgoing to use your master as a bell with its wooden tongue [3].'Such was the thought of this friendly stranger. The bell did indeedsound, but few had ears to hear.1 ?v?O, ??l?@?a, p. 5. See also Mencius, V. Pt. II. i. 4.; et al.2 See Chiang Yung's Life of Confucius, ?h?|?P?C??.3 Ana. III. xxiv.	Confucius's fame, however, had gone before him, and he wasin little danger of having to suffer from want. On arriving at thecapital of Wei, he lodged at first with a worthy officer, namedYen Ch'au-yu [1]. The reigning duke, known to us by the epithet ofLing [2], was a worthless, dissipated man, but he could notneglect a visitor of such eminence, and soon assigned toConfucius a revenue of 60,000 measures of grain [3]. Here heremained for ten months, and then for some reason left it to go toCh'an [4]. On the way he had to pass by K'wang [5], a place probablyin the present department of K'ai-fung in Ho-nan, which hadformerly suffered from Yang-hu. It so happened that Confuciusresembled Hu, and the attention of the people being called to himby the movements of his carriage-driver, they thought it wastheir old enemy, and made an attack upon him. His followers werealarmed, but he was calm, and tried to assure them by declaringhis belief that he had a divine mission. He said to them, 'After thedeath of king Wan, was not the cause of truth lodged here in me?If Heaven had wished to let this cause of truth perish, then I, afuture mortal, should not have got such a relation to that cause.While Heaven does not let the cause of truth perish, what can thepeople of K'wang do to me [6]?' Having escaped from the hands ofhis assailants, he does not seem to have carried out his purposeof going to Ch'an, but returned to Wei.	On the way, he passed a house where he had formerly lodged,and finding that the master was dead, and the funeral ceremoniesgoing on, he went in to condole and weep. When he came out, hetold Tsze-kung to take the outside horses from his carriage, andgive them as a contribution to the expenses of the occasion. 'Younever did such a thing,' Tsze-kung remonstrated, 'at the funeral ofany of your disciples; is it not too great a gift on this occasion ofthe death of an old host?' 'When I went in,' replied Confucius, 'mypresence brought a burst of grief from the chief mourner, and Ijoined him with my tears. I dislike the thought of my tears notbeing followed by anything. Do it, my child [7].' On reaching Wei,he lodged with Chu Po-yu, an officer of whom1 ?C?A??. See Mencius, V. Pt. I. viii. 2.2. ?F??.3 see the ?v?O, ??l?@?a, p. 5.4 ????.5. ?J.6 Ana. IX. v. In Ana. XI. xxii, there is another reference to thistime, in which Yen Hui is made to appear.7 See the Li Chi, II. Sect. I. ii. 16.honourable mention is made in the Analects [1]. But this time hedid not remain long in the State. The duke was[Sidebar] B.C. 495.married to a lady of the house of Sung, known by the name of Nan-tsze, notorious for her intrigues and wickedness. She sought aninterview with the sage, which he was obliged unwillingly toaccord [2]. No doubt he was innocent of thought or act of evil, butit gave great dissatisfaction to Tsze-lu that his master shouldhave been in company with such a woman, and Confucius, toassure him, swore an oath, saying, 'Wherein I have doneimproperly, may Heaven reject me! May Heaven reject me [3]!' Hecould not well abide, however, about such a court. One day theduke rode out through the streets of his capital in the samecarriage with Nan-tsze, and made Confucius follow them inanother. Perhaps he intended to honour the philosopher, but thepeople saw the incongruity, and cried out, 'Lust in the front;virtue behind!' Confucius was ashamed, and made the observation,'I have not seen one who loves virtue as he loves beauty [4].' Weiwas no place for him. He left it, and took his way towards Ch'an.	Ch'an, which formed part of the present province of Ho-nan,lay south from Wei. After passing the small State of Ts'ao [5], heapproached the borders of Sung, occupying the present prefectureof Kwei-teh, and had some intentions of entering it, when anincident occurred, which it is not easy to understand from themeagre style in which it is related, but which gave occasion to aremarkable saying. Confucius was practising ceremonies with hisdisciples, we are told, under the shade of a large tree. Hwan T'ui,an ill-minded officer of Sung, heard of it, and sent a band of mento pull down the tree, and kill the philosopher, if they could gethold of him. The disciples were much alarmed, but Confuciusobserved, 'Heaven has produced the virtue that is in me; what canHwan T'ui do to me [6]?' They all made their escape, but seem tohave been driven westwards to the State of Chang [7], on arrivingat the gate conducting into which from the east, Confucius foundhimself separated from his followers. Tsze-kung had arrivedbefore him, and was told by a native of Chang that there was aman standing by the east gate, with a forehead like Yao, a necklike Kao-yao, his shoulders on a level with those of Tsze-ch'an,but wanting, below the waist, three1 Ana. XIV. xxvi; XV. vi.2 See the account in the ?v?O, ??l?@?a, p. 6.3 Ana. VI. xxvi.4 Ana. IX. xvii.5 ??.6 ana. IX. xxii.7 ?G.inches of the height of Yu, and altogether having the disconsolateappearance of a stray dog.' Tsze-kung knew it was the master,hastened to him, and repeated to his great amusement thedescription which the man had given. 'The bodily appearance,' saidConfucius, 'is but a small matter, but to say I was like a straydog,-- capital! capital!' The stay they made at Chang was short,and by the end of B.C. 495, Confucius was in Ch'an.	All the next year he remained there, lodging with thewarder of the city wall, an officer of worth, of the name of Chang[2], and we have no accounts of him which deserve to be relatedhere [3].	In B.C. 494, Ch'an was much disturbed by attacks from Wu[4], a large State, the capital of which was in the presentdepartment of Su-chau, and Confucius determined to retrace hissteps to Wei. On the way he was laid hold of at a place called P'u[5], which was held by a rebellious officer against Wei, and beforehe could get away, he was obliged to engage that he would notproceed thither. Thither, notwithstanding, he continued his route,and when Tsze-kung asked him whether it was right to violate theoath he had taken, he replied, 'It was a forced oath. The spirits donot hear such [6].' 'The duke Ling received him with distinction,but paid no more attention to his lessons than before, andConfucius is said then to have uttered his complaint, 'If therewere any of the princes who would employ me, in the course oftwelve months I should have done something considerable. Inthree years the government would be perfected [7].'	A circumstance occurred to direct his attention to the Stateof Tsin [8], which occupied the southern part of the present Shan-hsi, and extended over the Yellow river into Ho-nan. An invitationcame to Confucius, like that which he had formerly received fromKung-shan Fu-zao. Pi Hsi, an officer of Tsin, who was holding thetown of Chung-mau against his chief, invited him to visit him,and Confucius was inclined to go. Tsze-lu was always the mentoron such occasions. He said to him, 'Master, I have heard you say,1 See the ?v?O, ??l?@?a, p. 6.2 ?q???s?l. See Mencius, V. Pt. I. viii. 3.3 Chiang Yung digests in this place two foolish stories,-- about alarge bone found in the State of Yueh, and a bird which appeared inCh'ia and died, shot through with a remarkable arrow. Confuciusknew all about them.4 ?d.5 ?Z.6 This ia related by Sze-ma ch'ien ??l?@?a, p. 7, and also in the'Narratives of the School.' I would fain believe it is not true. Thewonder is, that no Chinese critic should have set about disprovingit.7 Ana. XII. x.8 ??.that when a man in his own person is guilty of doing evil, asuperior man will not associate with him. Pi Hsi is in rebellion; ifyou go to him, what shall be said?' Confucius replied, 'Yes, I diduse those words. But is it not said that if a thing be really hard,it may be ground without being made thin; and if it be reallywhite, it may be steeped in a dark fluid without being madeblack? Am I a bitter gourd? Am I to be hung up out of the way ofbeing eaten [1]?'	These sentiments sound strangely from his lips. After all,he did not go to Pi Hsi; and having travelled as far as the Yellowriver that he might see one of the principal ministers of Tsin, heheard of the violent death of two men of worth, and returned toWei, lamenting the fate which prevented him from crossing thestream, and trying to solace himself with poetry as he had doneon leaving Lu. Again did he communicate with the duke, but asineffectually, and disgusted at being questioned by him aboutmilitary tactics, he left and went back to Ch'an.	He resided in Ch'an all the next year, B.C. 491, withoutanything occurring there which is worthy of note [2]. Events hadtranspired in Lu, however, which were to issue in his return tohis native State. The duke Ting had deceased B.C. 494, and ChiHwan, the chief of the Chi family, died in this year. On his death-bed, he felt remorse for his conduct to Confucius, and charged hissuccessor, known to us in the Analects as Chi K'ang, to recall thesage; but the charge was not immediately fulfilled. Chi K'ang, bythe advice of one of his officers, sent to Ch'an for the discipleYen Ch'iu instead. Confucius willingly sent him off, and wouldgladly have accompanied him. 'Let me return!' he said, 'Let mereturn [3]!' But that was not to be for several years yet.	In B.C. 490, accompanied, as usual, by several of hisdisciples, he went from Ch'an to Ts'ai, a small dependency of thegreat fief of Ch'u, which occupied a large part of the presentprovinces of Hu-nan and Hu-pei. On the way, between Ch'an andTs'ai, their provisions became exhausted, and they were cut offsomehow from obtaining a fresh supply. The disciples were quiteovercome with want, and Tsze-lu said to the master, 'Has thesuperior man indeed to endure in this way?' Confucius answeredhim, 'The superior man may indeed have to endure want; but themean manl Ana. XVII. vii.2 Tso Ch'iu-ming, indeed, relates a story of Confucius, on thereport of a fire in Lu, telling whose ancestral temple had beendestroyed by it.3 Ana. V. xxi.when he is in want, gives way to unbridled license [1].' Accordingto the 'Narratives of the School,' the distress continued sevendays, during which time Confucius retained his equanimity, andwas even cheerful, playing on his lute and singing [2]. He retained,however, a strong impression of the perils of the season, and wefind him afterwards recurring to it, and lamenting that of thefriends that were with him in Ch'an and Ts'ai, there were noneremaining to enter his door [3].	Escaped from this strait, he remained in Ts'ai over B.C. 489,and in the following year we find him in Sheh, another district ofCh'u, the chief of which had taken the title of duke, according tothe usurping policy of that State. Puzzled about his visitor, heasked Tsze-lu what he should think of him, but the disciple didnot venture a reply. When Confucius heard of it, he said to Tsze-lu. 'Why did you not say to him:-- He is simply a man who in hiseager pursuit of knowledge forgets his food, who in the joy of itsattainment forgets his sorrows, and who does not perceive thatold age is coming on [4]?' Subsequently, the duke, in conversationwith Confucius, asked him about government, and got the reply,dictated by some circumstances of which we are ignorant, 'Goodgovernment obtains, when those who are near are made happy, andthose who are far off are attracted [5]'	After a short stay in Sheh, according to Sze-ma Ch'ien, hereturned to Ts'ai, and having to dross a river, he sent Tsze-lu toinquire for the ford of two men who were at work in a neighboringfield. They were recluses, men who had withdrawn from publiclife in disgust at the waywardness of the times. One of them wascalled Ch'ang-tsu, and instead of giving Tsze-lu the informationhe wanted, he asked him, 'Who is it that holds the reins in thecarriage there?' 'It is K'ung Ch'iu.' 'K'ung Ch'iu of Lu?' 'Yes,' wasthe reply, and then the man rejoined, 'He knows the ford.'	Tsze-lu applied to the other, who was called Chieh-ni, butgot for answer the question, 'Who are you, Sir?' He replied, 'I amChung Yu.' 'Chung Yu, who is the disciple of K'ung Ch'iu of Lu?''Yes,' again replied Tsze-lu, and Chieh-ni said to him, 'Disorder,like a swelling flood, spreads over the whole kingdom,1 Ana. XV. i. 2, 3.2 ?a?y, ???G, ?b?M, ?G?Q?g.3 Ana. XI. ii.4 Ana. VII. xviii.5 Ana. XIII. xvi.and who is he that will change it for you? Than follow one whomerely withdraws from this one and that one, had you not betterfollow those who withdraw from the world altogether?' With thishe fell to covering up the seed, and gave no more heed to thestranger. Tsze-lu went back and reported what they had said,when Confucius vindicated his own course, saying. 'It isimpossible to associate with birds and beasts as if they were thesame with us. If I associate not with these people,-- withmankind,-- with whom shall I associate? If right principlesprevailed through the kingdom, there would be no need for me tochange its state [1].'	About the same time he had an encounter with anotherrecluse, who was known as 'The madman of Ch'u.' He passed by thecarriage of Confucius, singing out, 'O phoenix, O phoenix, how isyour virtue degenerated! As to the past, reproof is useless, butthe future may be provided against. Give up, give up your vainpursuit.' Confucius alighted and wished to enter into conversationwith him, but the man hastened away [2].	But now the attention of the ruler of Ch'u -- king, as hestyled himself -- was directed to the illustrious stranger whowas in his dominions, and he met Confucius and conducted him tohis capital, which was in the present district of I-ch'ang, in thedepartment of Hsiang-yang [3], in Hu-pei. After a time, heproposed endowing the philosopher with a considerable territory,but was dissuaded by his prime minister, who said to him, 'Hasyour majesty any officer who could discharge the duties of anambassador like Tsze-kung? or any one so qualified for a premieras Yen Hui? or any one to compare as a general with Tsze-lu? Thekings Wan and Wu, from their hereditary dominions of a hundredli, rose to the sovereignty of the kingdom. If K'ung Ch'iu, withsuch disciples to be his ministers, get the possession of anyterritory, it will not be to the prosperity of Ch'u [4]? On thisremonstrance the king gave up his purpose; and, when he died inthe same year, Confucius left the State, and went back again toWei.	The duke Ling had died four years before, soon afterConfucius[Sidebar] B.C. 489.had last parted from him, and the reigning duke, known to us bythe title of Ch'u [5], was his grandson, and was holding theprincipality against his own father. The relations1 Ana. XVIII. vi.2 Ana XVII. v.3 ???????y????.4 See the ?v?O, ??l?@?a, p. 10.5 ?X??.between them were rather complicated. The father had beendriven out in consequence of an attempt which he had instigatedon the life of his step-mother, the notorious Nan-tsze, and thesuccession was given to his son. Subsequently, the father wantedto reclaim what he deemed his right, and an unseemly struggleensued. The duke Ch'u was conscious how much his cause would bestrengthened by the support of Confucius, and hence when he gotto Wei, Tsze-lu could say to him, 'The prince of Wei has beenwaiting for you, in order with you to administer the government;-- what will you consider the first thing to be done [1]?' Theopinion of the philosopher, however, was against the propriety ofthe duke's course [2], and he declined taking office with him,though he remained in Wei for between five and six years. Duringall that time there is a blank in his history. In the very year of hisreturn, according to the 'Annals of the Empire,' his most beloveddisciple, Yen Hui, died, on which occasion he exclaimed, 'Alas!Heaven is destroying me! Heaven is destroying me [3]!' The deathof his wife is assigned to B.C. 484, but nothing else is relatedwhich we can connect with this long period.	9. His return to Lu was brought about by the disciple Yen Yu,who, we have seen, went into the service of Chi K'ang, in B.C. 491.[Sidebar] From his return to Lu to his death. B.C. 484-478.In the year B.C. 483, Yu had the conduct of some militaryoperations against Ch'i, and being successful, Chi K'ang asked himhow he had obtained his military skill;-- was it from nature, orby learning? He replied that he had learned it from Confucius, andentered into a glowing eulogy of the philosopher. The chiefdeclared that he would bring Confucius home again to Lu. 'If youdo so,' said the disciple, 'see that you do not let mean men comebetween you and him.' On this K'ang sent three officers withappropriate presents to Wei, to invite the wanderer home, and hereturned with them accordingly [4].	This event took place in the eleventh year of the duke Ai [5],who succeeded to Ting, and according to K'ung Fu, Confucius'sdescendant, the invitation proceeded from him [6]. We maysuppose that1 Ana. XIII. iii. In the notes on this passage, I have given Chu Hsi'sopinion as to the time when Tsze-lu made this remark. It seemsmore correct, however, to refer it to Confucius's return to Weifrom Ch'u, as is done by Chiang Yung.2 Ana. VII. xiv.3 Ana. XI. viii. In the notes on Ana. XI. vii, I have adverted to thechronological difficulty connected with the dates assignedrespectively to the deaths of Yen Hui and Confucius's own son, Li.Chiang Yung assigns Hui's death to B.C. 481.4 See the ?v?O, ??l?@?a.5 ?s??.6 See Chiang Yung's memoir, in loc.while Chi K'ang was the mover and director of the proceeding, itwas with the authority and approval of the duke. It is representedin the chronicle of Tso Ch'iu-ming as having occurred at a veryopportune time. The philosopher had been consulted a little beforeby K'ung Wan [1], an officer of Wei, about how he should conduct afeud with another officer, and disgusted at being referred to onsuch a subject, had ordered his carriage and prepared to leave theState, exclaiming, 'The bird chooses its tree. The tree does notchoose the bird.' K'ung Wan endeavoured to excuse himself, and toprevail on Confucius to remain in Wei, and just at this juncturethe messengers from Lu arrived [2].	Confucius was now in his sixty-ninth year. The world hadnot dealt kindly with him. In every State which he had visited hehad met with disappointment and sorrow. Only five more yearsremained to him, nor were they of a brighter character than thepast. He had, indeed, attained to that state, he tells us, in which'he could follow what his heart desired without transgressingwhat was right [3],' but other people were not more inclined thanthey had been to abide by his counsels. The duke Ai and Chi K'angoften conversed with him, but he no longer had weight in theguidance of state affairs, and wisely addressed himself to thecompletion of his literary labors. He wrote a preface, accordingto Sze-ma Ch'ien, to the Shu-ching; carefully digested the ritesand ceremonies determined by the wisdom of the more ancientsages and kings; collected and arranged the ancient poetry; andundertook the reform of music [4]. He has told us himself. 'Ireturned from Wei to Lu, and then the music was reformed, andthe pieces in the Songs of the Kingdom and Praise Songs found alltheir proper place [5].' To the Yi-ching he devoted much study, andSze-ma Ch'ien says that the leather thongs by which the tabletsof his copy were bound together were thrice worn out. 'If someyears were added to my life,' he said, 'I would give fifty to thestudy of the Yi, and then I might come to be without great faults[6].' During this time also, we may suppose that he supplied TsangShan with the materials of the classic of Filial Piety. The sameyear that he returned, Chi Kang sent Yen Yu to ask his opinionabout an1 ???l, the same who is mentioned in the Analects, V. xiv.2 See the ????, ?s???Q?@?~.3 Ana. II. iv. 6.4 See the ?v?O, ??l?@?a, p. 12.5 Ana. IX. xiv.6 Ana. VII. xvi.additional impost which he wished to lay upon the people, butConfucius refused to give any reply, telling the disciple privatelyhis disapproval of the proposed measure. It was carried out,however, in the following year, by the agency of Yen, on whichoccasion, I suppose, it was that Confucius said to the otherdisciples, 'He is no disciple of mine; my little children, beat thedrum and assail him [1].' The year B.C. 483 was marked by thedeath of his son Li, which he seems to have borne with moreequanimity than he did that of his disciple Yen Hui, which somewriters assign to the following year, though I have alreadymentioned it under the year B.C. 489.	In the spring of B.C. 481, a servant of Chi K'ang caught aCh'i-lin on a hunting excursion of the duke in the present districtof Chia-hsiang [2]. No person could tell what strange animal itwas, and Confucius was called to look at it. He at once knew it tobe a lin, and the legend-writers say that it bore on one of itshorns the piece of ribbon, which his mother had attached to theone that appeared to her before his birth. According to thechronicle of Kung-yang, he was profoundly affected. He cried out,'For whom have you come? For whom have you come?' His tearsflowed freely, and he added, 'The course of my doctrines is run[3].'	Notwithstanding the appearance of the lin, the life ofConfucius was still protracted for two years longer, though hetook occasion to terminate with that event his history of theCh'un Ch'iu. This Work, according to Sze-ma Ch'ien, was altogetherthe production of this year, but we heed not suppose that it wasso. In it, from the standpoint of Lu, he briefly indicates theprincipal events occurring throughout the country, every termbeing expressive, it is said, of the true character of the actorsand events described. Confucius said himself, 'It is the Spring andAutumn which will make men know me, and it is the Spring andAutumn which will make men condemn me [4].' Mencius makes thecomposition of it to have been an achievement as great as Yu'sregulation of the waters of the deluge:-- 'Confucius completedthe Spring and Autumn, and rebellious ministers and villainoussons were struck with terror [5].'	Towards the end of this year, word came to Lu that the duke1 Ana. XI. xvi.2 ?^?{???????.3 ?????, ?s???Q?|?~. According to Kung-yang, however, the lin wasfound by some wood-gatherers.4 Mencius III. Pt. II. ix. 8.5 Mencius III. Pt. II. ix. 11.of Ch'i had been murdered by one of his officers. Confucius wasmoved with indignation. Such an outrage he felt, called for hissolemn interference. He bathed, went to court, and representedthe matter to the duke, saying, 'Ch'an Hang has slain hissovereign, I beg that you will undertake to punish him.' The dukepleaded his incapacity, urging that Lu was weak compared withCh'i, but Confucius replied, 'One half the people of Ch'i are notconsenting to the deed. If you add to the people of Lu one half thepeople of Ch'i, you are sure to overcome.' But he could not infusehis spirit into the duke, who told him to go and lay the matterbefore the chiefs of the three Families. Sorely against his senseof propriety, he did so, but they would not act, and he withdrewwith the remark, 'Following in the rear of the great officers, I didnot dare not to represent such a matter [1].'	In the year B.C. 479, Confucius had to mourn the death ofanother of his disciples, one of those who had been longest withhim, the well-known Tsze-lu. He stands out a sort of Peter in theConfucian school, a man of impulse, prompt to speak and promptto act. He gets many a check from the master, but there isevidently a strong sympathy between them. Tsze-lu uses afreedom with him on which none of the other disciples dares toventure, and there is not one among them all, for whom, if I mayspeak from my own feeling, the foreign student comes to formsuch a liking. A pleasant picture is presented to us in one passageof the Analects. It is said, 'The disciple Min was standing by hisside, looking bland and precise; Tsze-lu (named Yu), looking boldand soldierly; Yen Yu and Tsze-kung, with a free andstraightforward manner. The master was pleased, but heobserved, "Yu there!-- he will not die a natural death [2]."'	This prediction was verified. When Confucius returned to Lufrom Wei, he left Tsze-lu and Tsze-kao [3] engaged there inofficial service. Troubles arose. News came to Lu, B.C. 479, that arevolution was in progress in Wei, and when Confucius heard it,he said, 'Ch'ai will come here, but Yu will die [4].' So it turned out.When Tsze-kao saw that matters were desperate he made hisescape, but Tsze-lu would not forsake the chief who had treated1 See the ????, ?s???Q?|?~ and Analects XIV. xxii.2 Ana. XI. xii.3 ?l??, by surname Kao (??), and name Ch'ai (??).4 See the ????, ?s???Q???~.him well. He threw himself into the melee, and was slain.Confucius wept sore for him, but his own death was not far off. Ittook place on the eleventh day of the fourth month in the sameyear, B.C. 479 [1]. Early one morning, we are told, he got up, andwith his hands behind his back, dragging his staff, he moved aboutby his door, crooning over,--'The great mountain must crumble;The strong beam must break;And the wise man wither away like a plant.'	After a little, he entered the house and sat down oppositethe door. Tsze-kung had heard his words, and said to himself, 'Ifthe great mountain crumble, to what shall I look up? If the strongbeam break, and the wise man wither away, on whom shall I lean?The master, I fear, is going to be ill.' With this he hastened intothe house. Confucius said to him, 'Ts'ze, what makes you so late?According to the statutes of Hsia, the corpse was dressed andcoffined at the top of the eastern steps, treating the dead as if hewere still the host. Under the Yin, the ceremony was performedbetween the two pillars, as if the dead were both host and guest.The rule of Chau is to perform it at the top of the western steps,treating the dead as if he were a guest. I am a man of Yin, and lastnight I dreamt that I was sitting with offerings before mebetween the two pillars. No intelligent monarch arises; there isnot one in the kingdom that will make me his master. My time hascome to die.' So it was. He went to his couch, and after seven daysexpired [2].	Such is the account which we have of the last hours of thegreat philosopher of China. His end was not unimpressive, but itwas melancholy. He sank behind a cloud. Disappointed hopes madehis soul bitter. The great ones of the kingdom had not received histeachings. No wife nor child was by to do the kindly offices ofaffection for him. Nor were the expectations of another lifepresent with him as he passed through the dark valley. He utteredno prayer, and he betrayed no apprehensions. Deep-treasured inhis own heart may have been the thought that he had endeavouredto serve his generation by the will of God, but he gave no sign.'The mountain falling came to nought, and the rock was removed1 See the ????, ?s???Q???~, and Chiang Yung's Life of Confucius, inloc.2 See the Li Chi, II, Sect. I. ii. 20.out of his place. So death prevailed against him and he passed; hiscountenance was changed, and he was sent away.'	10. I flatter myself that the preceding paragraphs contain amore correct narrative of the principal incidents in the life ofConfucius than has yet been given in any European language. Theymight easily have been expanded into a volume, but I did not wishto exhaust the subject, but only to furnish a sketch, which, whileit might satisfy the general reader, would be of specialassistance to the careful student of the classical Books. I hadtaken many notes of the manifest errors in regard to chronologyand other matters in the 'Narratives of the School,' and thechapter of Sze-ma Ch'ien on the K'ung family, when the digest ofChiang Yung, to which I have made frequent reference, attractedmy attention. Conclusions to which I had come were confirmed,and a clue was furnished to difficulties which I was seeking todisentangle. I take the opportunity to acknowledge here myobligations to it. With a few notices of Confucius's habits andmanners, I shall conclude this section.	Very little can be gathered from reliable sources on thepersonal appearance of the sage. The height of his father isstated, as I have noted, to have been ten feet, and thoughConfucius came short of this by four inches, he was often called'the tall man.' It is allowed that the ancient foot or cubit wasshorter than the modem, but it must be reduced more than anyscholar I have consulted has yet done, to bring this statementwithin the range of credibility. The legends assign to his figure'nine-and-forty remarkable peculiarities [1],' a tenth part ofwhich would have made him more a monster than a man. Dr.Morrison says that the images of him which he had seen in thenorthern parts of China, represent him as of a dark, swarthycolour [2]. It is not so with those common in the south. He was, nodoubt, in size and complexion much the same as many of hisdescendants in the present day. Dr. Edkins and myself enjoyed theservices of two of those descendants, who acted as 'wheelers' inthe wheelbarrows which conveyed us from Ch'u-fau to a town onthe Grand Canal more than 250 miles off. They were strong,capable men, both physically and mentally superior to theircompanions.1 ?|?Q?E??.2 Chinese and English Dictionary, char. ??. Sir John Davis alsomentions seeing a figure of Confucius, in a temple near the Po-yang lake, of which the complexion was 'quite black' (The Chinese,vol. ii. p. 66).	But if his disciples had nothing to chronicle of his personalappearance, they have gone very minutely into an account of manyof his habits. The tenth Book of the Analects is all occupied withhis deportment, his eating, and his dress. In public, whether in thevillage, the temple, or the court, he was the man of rule andceremony, but 'at home he was not formal.' Yet if not formal, hewas particular. In bed even he did not forget himself;-- 'he did notlie like a corpse,' and 'he did not speak.' 'He required his sleepingdress to be half as long again as his body.' 'If he happened to besick, and the prince came to visit him, he had his face set to theeast, made his court robes be put over him, and drew his girdleacross them.'	He was nice in his diet,-- 'not disliking to have his ricedressed fine, nor to have his minced meat cut small.' 'Anything atall gone he would not touch.' 'He must have his meat cut properly,and to every kind its proper sauce; but he was not a great eater.''It was only in drink that he laid down no limit to himself, but hedid not allow himself to be confused by it.' 'When the villagerswere drinking together, on those who carried staffs going out, hewent out immediately after.' There must always be ginger at thetable, and 'when eating, he did not converse.' 'Although his foodmight be coarse rice and poor soup, he would offer a little of it insacrifice, with a grave, respectful air.'	'On occasion of a sudden clap of thunder, or a violent wind,he would change countenance. He would do the same, and rise upmoreover, when he found himself a guest at a loaded board.' 'Atthe sight of a person in mourning, he would also changecountenance, and if he happened to be in his carriage, he wouldbend forward with a respectful salutation.' 'His general way in hiscarriage was not to turn his head round, nor talk hastily, nor pointwith his hands.' He was charitable. 'When any of his friends died,if there were no relations who could be depended on for thenecessary offices, he would say, "I will bury him."	'The disciples were so careful to record these and othercharacteristics of their master, it is said, because every act, ofmovement or of rest, was closely associated with the greatprinciples which it was his object to inculcate. The detail of somany small matters, however, hardly impresses a foreigner sofavourably. There rather seems to be a want of freedom about thephilosopher.SECTION II.HIS INFLUENCE AND OPINIONS.	1. Confucius died, we have seen, complaining that of all theprinces of the kingdom there was not one who would adopt his[Sidebar] Homage rendered to Confucius by the sovereigns ofChina.principles and obey his lessons. He had hardly passed from thestage of life, when his merit began to be acknowledged. When theduke Ai heard of his death, he pronounced his eulogy in the words,'Heaven has not left to me the aged man. There is none now toassist me on the throne. Woe is me! Alas! O venerable Ni [1]!' Tsze-kung complained of the inconsistency of this lamentation fromone who could not use the master when he was alive, but theprince was probably sincere in his grief. He caused a temple to beerected, and ordered that sacrifice should be offered to the sage,at the four seasons of the year [2].	The sovereigns of the tottering dynasty of Chau had not theintelligence, nor were they in a position, to do honour to thedeparted philosopher, but the facts detailed in the first chapterof these prolegomena, in connexion with the attempt of thefounder of the Ch'in dynasty to destroy the literary monuments ofantiquity, show how the authority of Confucius had come by thattime to prevail through the nation. The founder of the Handynasty, in passing through Lu, B.C. 195, visited his tomb andoffered the three victims in sacrifice to him. Other sovereignssince then have often made pilgrimages to the spot. The mostfamous temple in the empire now rises near the place of thegrave. The second and greatest of the rulers of the presentdynasty, in the twenty-third year of his reign, the K'ang-hsiperiod, there set the example of kneeling thrice, and each timelaying his forehead thrice in the dust, before the image of thesage.	In the year of our Lord 1, began the practice of conferringhonourary designations on Confucius by imperial authority. Theemperor Ping [3] then styled him-- 'The duke Ni, all-complete andl Li Chi, II. Sect. I. iii. 43. This eulogy is found at greater length inthe ????, immediately after the notice of the sage's death.2 See the ?t?q??????, ???@, art. on Confucius. I am indebted tothis for most of the notices in this paragraph.3 ????.illustrious [1].' This was changed, in A.D. 492, to-- 'The venerableNi, the accomplished Sage [2].' Other titles have supplanted this.Shun-chih [3], the first of the Man-chau dynasty, adopted, in hissecond year, A.D. 1645, the style, 'K'ung, the ancient Teacher,accomplished and illustrious, all-complete, the perfect Sage [4];'but twelve years later, a shorter title was introduced,-- 'K'ung,the ancient Teacher, the perfect Sage [5].' Since that year nofurther alteration has been made.	At first, the worship of Confucius was confined to thecountry of Lu, but in A.D. 57 it was enacted that sacrifices shouldbe offered to him in the imperial college, and in all the collegesof the principal territorial divisions throughout the empire. Inthose sacrifices he was for some centuries associated with theduke of Chau, the legislator to whom Confucius made frequentreference, but in A.D. 609 separate temples were assigned tothem, and in 628 our sage displaced the older worthy altogether.About the same time began the custom, which continues to thepresent day, of erecting temples to him,-- separate structures, inconnexion with all the colleges, or examination-halls, of thecountry.	The sage is not alone in those temples. In a hall behind theprincipal one occupied by himself are the tablets -- in somecases, the images -- of several of his ancestors, and otherworthies; while associated with himself are his principaldisciples, and many who in subsequent times have signalizedthemselves as expounders and exemplifiers of his doctrines. Onthe first day of every month, offerings of fruits and vegetablesare set forth, and on the fifteenth there is a solemn burning ofincense. But twice a year, in the middle months of spring andautumn, when the first ting day [6] of the month comes round, theworship of Confucius is performed with peculiar solemnity. Atthe imperial college the emperor himself is required to attend instate, and is in fact the principal performer. After all thepreliminary arrangements have been made, and the emperor hastwice knelt and six times bowed his head to the earth, thepresence of Confucius's spirit is invoked in the words, 'Great artthou, O perfect sage! Thy virtue is full; thy doctrine is complete.Among mortal men there has not been thine equal. All kingshonour thee. Thy statutes and laws have come gloriously1 ???????.2 ??t????.3 ???v.4 ?j????t, ?????v, ??l5 ??t???v??l6 ?W?B??down. Thou art the pattern in this imperial school. Reverentlyhave the sacrificial vessels been set out. Full of awe, we soundour drums and bells [1].'	The spirit is supposed now to be present, and the serviceproceeds through various offerings, when the first of which hasbeen set forth, an officer reads the following [2], which is theprayer on the occasion:-- 'On this ... month of this ... year, I, A.B.,the emperor, offer a sacrifice to the philosopher K'ung, theancient Teacher, the perfect Sage, and say,-- O Teacher, in virtueequal to Heaven and Earth, whose doctrines embrace the past timeand the present, thou didst digest and transmit the six classics,and didst hand down lessons for all generations! Now in thissecond month of spring (or autumn), in reverent observance of theold statutes, with victims, silks, spirits, and fruits, I carefullyoffer sacrifice to thee. With thee are associated the philosopherYen, Continuator of thee; the philosopher Tsang, Exhibiter of thyfundamental principles; the philosopher Tsze-sze, Transmitter ofthee; and the philosopher Mang, Second to thee. May'st thou enjoythe offerings!'	I need not go on to enlarge on the homage which theemperors of China render to Confucius. It could not be morecomplete. He was unreasonably neglected when alive. He is nowunreasonably venerated when dead.	2. The rulers of China are not singular in this matter, but inentire sympathy with the mass of their people. It is thedistinction[Sidebar] General appreciation of Confucius.of this empire that education has been highly prized in it from theearliest times. It was so before the era of Confucius, and we maybe sure that the system met with his approbation. One of hisremarkable sayings was,-- 'To lead an uninstructed people to waris to throw them away [3].' When he pronounced this judgment, hewas not thinking of military training, but of education in theduties of life and citizenship. A people so taught, he thought,would be morally fitted to fight for their government. Mencius,when lecturing to the ruler of T'ang on the proper way ofgoverning a kingdom, told him that he must provide the means ofeducation for all, the poor as well as the rich. 'Establish,' said he,'hsiang, hsu, hsio, and hsiao,-- all those educationalinstitutions,-- for the instruction of the people [4].'1 2 See the ?j?M?q???Q?G.3 Ana. XIII. xxx.4 Mencius III. Pt. I. iii. 10.	At the present day, education is widely diffused throughoutChina. In few other countries is the schoolmaster more abroad,and in all schools it is Confucius who is taught. The plan ofcompetitive examinations, and the selection for civil offices onlyfrom those who have been successful candidates,-- good so far asthe competition is concerned, but injurious from the restrictedrange of subjects with which an acquaintance is required,-- haveobtained for more than twelve centuries. The classical works arethe text books. It is from them almost exclusively that thethemes proposed to determine the knowledge and ability of thestudents are chosen. The whole of the magistracy of China is thusversed in all that is recorded of the sage, and in the ancientliterature which he preserved. His thoughts are familiar to everyman in authority, and his character is more or less reproduced inhim.	The official civilians of China, numerous as they are, arebut a fraction of its students, and the students, or those whomake literature a profession, are again but a fraction of thosewho attend school for a shorter or longer period. Yet so far as thestudies have gone, they have been occupied with the Confucianwritings. In the schoolrooms there is a tablet or inscription onthe wall, sacred to the sage, and every pupil is required, oncoming to school on the morning of the first and fifteenth ofevery month, to bow before it, the first thing, as an act ofreverence [1]. Thus all in China who receive the slightest tinctureof learning do so at the fountain of Confucius. They learn of himand do homage to him at once. I have repeatedly quoted thestatement that during his life-time he had three thousanddisciples. Hundreds of millions are his disciples now. It is hardlynecessary to make any allowance in this statement for thefollowers of Taoism and Buddhism, for, as Sir John Davis hasobserved, 'whatever the other opinions or faith of a Chinese maybe, he takes good care to treat Confucius with respect [2].' Fortwo thousand years he has reigned supreme, the undisputedteacher of this most populous land.	3. This position and influence of Confucius are to beascribed, I conceive, chiefly to two causes:-- his being thepreserver, namely ofl During the present dynasty, the tablet of ?????g, the god ofliterature, has to a considerable extent displaced that ofConfucius in schools. Yet the worship of him does not clash withthat of the other. He is 'the father' of composition only.2 The Chinese, vol. ii. p. 45.the monuments of antiquity, and the exemplifier and expounder of[Sidebar] The causes of his influence.the maxims of the golden age of China; and the devotion to him ofhis immediate disciples and their early followers. The nationaland the personal are thus blended in him, each in its highestdegree of excellence. He was a Chinese of the Chinese; he is alsorepresented as, and all now believe him to have been, the beauideal of humanity in its best and noblest estate.	4. It may be well to bring forward here Confucius's ownestimate of himself and of his doctrines. It will serve toillustrate the[Sidebar] His own estimate of himself and of his doctrines.statements just made. The following are some of his sayings:--'The sage and the man of perfect virtue;-- how dare I rank myselfwith them? It may simply be said of me, that I strive to becomesuch without satiety, and teach others without weariness.' 'Inletters I am perhaps equal to other men; but the character of thesuperior man, carrying out in his conduct what he professes, iswhat I have not yet attained to.' 'The leaving virtue withoutproper cultivation; the not thoroughly discussing what is learned;not being able to move towards righteousness of which aknowledge is gained; and not being able to change what is notgood;-- these are the things which occasion me solicitude.' 'I amnot one who was born in the possession of knowledge; I am onewho is fond of antiquity and earnest in seeking it there.' 'Atransmitter and not a maker, believing in and loving the ancients,I venture to compare myself with our old P'ang [1].'	Confucius cannot be thought to speak of himself in thesedeclarations more highly than he ought to do. Rather we mayrecognise in them the expressions of a genuine humility. He wasconscious that personally he came short in many things, but hetoiled after the character, which he saw, or fancied that he saw,in the ancient sages whom he acknowledged; and the lessons ofgovernment and morals which he labored to diffuse were thosewhich had already been inculcated and exhibited by them.Emphatically he was 'a transmitter and not a maker.' It is not tobe understood that he was not fully satisfied of the truth of theprinciples which he had learned. He held them with the fullapproval and consent of his own understanding. He believed that ifthey were acted on, they would remedy the evils of his time.1 All these passages are taken from the seventh Book of theAnalects. See chapters xxxiii, xxxii, iii, xix, and i.There was nothing to prevent rulers like Yao and Shun and thegreat Yu from again arising, and a condition of happy tranquillitybeing realized throughout the kingdom under their sway.	If in anything he thought himself 'superior and alone,' havingattributes which others could not claim, it was in his possessinga divine commission as the conservator of ancient truth and rules.He does not speak very definitely on this point. It is noted that'the appointments of Heaven was one of the subjects on which herarely touched [1].' His most remarkable utterance was that whichI have already given in the sketch of his Life:-- 'When he was putin fear in K'wang, he said, "After the death of king Wan, was notthe cause of truth lodged here in me? If Heaven had wished to letthis cause of truth perish, then I, a future mortal, should not havegot such a relation to that cause. While Heaven does not let thecause of truth perish, what can the people of K'wang do to me[2]?"' Confucius, then, did feel that he was in the world for aspecial purpose. But it was not to announce any new truths, or toinitiate any new economy. It was to prevent what had previouslybeen known from being lost. He followed in the wake of Yao andShun, of T'ang, and king Wan. Distant from the last by a longinterval of time, he would have said that he was distant from himalso by a great inferiority of character, but still he had learnedthe principles on which they all happily governed the country, andin their name he would lift up a standard against the prevailinglawlessness of his age.	5. The language employed with reference to Confucius by hisdisciples and their early followers presents a striking contrastwith his own.[Sidebar] Estimate of him by his disciples and their earlyfollowers.I have already, in writing of the scope and value of 'The Doctrineof the Mean,' called attention to the extravagant eulogies of hisgrandson Tsze-sze. He only followed the example which had beenset by those among whom the philosopher went in and out. Wehave the language of Yen Yuan, his favourite, which iscomparatively moderate, and simply expresses the genuineadmiration of a devoted pupil [3]. Tsze-kung on several occasionsspoke in a different style. Having heard that one of the chiefs ofLu had said that he himself -- Tsze-kung -- was superior toConfucius, he observed, 'Let me use the comparison of a house andits encompassing wall. My wall1 Ana. IX. i.2 Ana. IX. iii.3 Ana. IX. x.only reaches to the shoulders. One may peep over it, and seewhatever is valuable in the apartments. The wall of my master isseveral fathoms high. If one do not find the door and enter by it,he cannot see the rich ancestral temple with its beauties, nor allthe officers in their rich array. But I may assume that they arefew who find the door. The remark of the chief was only whatmight have been expected [1]'	Another time, the same individual having spoken revilinglyof Confucius, Tsze-kung said, 'It is of no use doing so. Chung-nicannot be reviled. The talents and virtue of other men are hillocksand mounds which may be stepped over. Chung-ni is the sun ormoon, which it is not possible to step over. Although a man maywish to cut himself off from the sage, what harm can he do to thesun and moon? He only shows that he does not know his owncapacity [2].'	In conversation with a fellow-disciple, Tsze-kung took astill higher flight. Being charged by Tsze-ch'in with being toomodest, for that Confucius was not really superior to him, hereplied, 'For one word a man is often deemed to be wise, and forone word he is often deemed to be foolish. We ought to be carefulindeed in what we say. Our master cannot be attained to, just inthe same way as the heavens cannot be gone up to by the steps ofa stair. Were our master in the position of the prince of a State,or the chief of a Family, we should find verified the descriptionwhich has been given of a sage's rule:-- He would plant thepeople, and forthwith they would be established; he would leadthem on, and forthwith they would follow him; he would makethem happy, and forthwith multitudes would resort to hisdominions; he would stimulate them, and forthwith they would beharmonious. While he lived, he would be glorious. When he died, hewould be bitterly lamented. How is it possible for him to beattained to [3]?'	From these representations of Tsze-kung, it was not adifficult step for Tsze-sze to take in exalting Confucius not onlyto the level of the ancient sages, but as 'the equal of Heaven.' AndMencius took up the theme. Being questioned by Kung-sun Ch'au,one of his disciples, about two acknowledged sages, Po-i and IYin, whether they were to be placed in the same rank withConfucius, he replied, 'No. Since there were living men until now,there never was another Confucius;' and then he proceeded tofortify his1 Ana. XIX. xxiii.2 Ana. XIX. xxiv.3 Ana. XIX. xxv.opinion by the concurring testimony of Tsai Wo, Tsze-kung, and YuZo, who all had wisdom, he thought, sufficient to know theirmaster. Tsai Wo's opinion was, 'According to my view of ourmaster, he is far superior to Yao and Shun.' Tsze-kung said, 'Byviewing the ceremonial ordinances of a prince, we know thecharacter of his government. By hearing his music, we know thecharacter of his virtue. From the distance of a hundred ages after,I can arrange, according to their merits, the kings of thosehundred ages;-- not one of them can escape me. From the birth ofmankind till now, there has never been another like our master.'Yu Zo said, 'Is it only among men that it is so? There is the ch'i-lin among quadrupeds; the fung-hwang among birds; the T'aimountain among mounds and ant-hills; and rivers and seas amongrainpools. Though different in degree, they are the same in kind.So the sages among mankind are also the same in kind. But theystand out from their fellows, and rise above the level; and fromthe birth of mankind till now, there never has been one socomplete as Confucius [1].' I will not indulge in fartherillustration. The judgment of the sage's disciples, of Tsze-sze,and of Mencius, has been unchallenged by the mass of the scholarsof China. Doubtless it pleases them to bow down at the shrine ofthe Sage, for their profession of literature is thereby glorified. Areflection of the honour done to him falls upon themselves. Andthe powers that be, and the multitudes of the people, fall in withthe judgment. Confucius is thus, in the empire of China, the oneman by whom all possible personal excellence was exemplified,and by whom all possible lessons of social virtue and politicalwisdom are taught.	6. The reader will be prepared by the preceding account notto expect to find any light thrown by Confucius on the greatproblems of the human condition and destiny. He did not speculateon the creation of things or the end of them. He was not troubledto account for the origin of man, nor did he seek to know about hishereafter. He meddled neither with physics nor metaphysics [2].[Sidebar] Subjects on which Confucius did not treat.-- That hewas unreligious, unspiritual, and open to the charge ofinsincerity.The testimony of the Analects about the subjects of his teachingis the following:-- 'His frequent themes of discourse were theBook1 Mencius, II. Pt. I. ii. 23-28.2 'The contents of the Yi-ching, and Confucius's labors upon it,may be objected in opposition to this statement, and I must beunderstood to make it with come reservation. Six years ago, Ispent all my leisure time for twelve months in the study of thatWork, and wrote out a translation of it, but at the close I wasonly groping my way in darkness to lay hold of [footnote continuednext page].of Poetry, the Book of History, and the maintenance of the rulesof Propriety.' 'He taught letters, ethics, devotion of soul, andtruthfulness.' 'Extraordinary things; feats of strength; states ofdisorder; and spiritual beings, he did not like to talk about [1].'	Confucius is not to be blamed for his silence on thesubjects here indicated. His ignorance of them was to a greatextent his misfortune. He had not learned them. No report of themhad come to him by the ear; no vision of them by the eye. And tohis practical mind the toiling of thought amid uncertaintiesseemed worse than useless.	The question has, indeed, been raised, whether he did notmake changes in the ancient creed of China [2], but I cannotbelieve that he did so consciously and designedly. Had hisidiosyncrasy been different, we might have had expositions of theancient views on some points, the effect of which would havebeen more beneficial than the indefiniteness in which they arenow left, and it may be doubted so far, whether Confucius was notunfaithful to his guides. But that he suppressed or added, in orderto bring in articles of belief originating with himself, is a thingnot to be charged against him.	I will mention two important subjects in regard to whichthere is a conviction in my mind that he came short of the faithof the older sages. The first is the doctrine of God. This name iscommon in the Shih-ching and Shu-ching. Ti or Shang-Ti appearsthere as a personal being, ruling in heaven and on earth, theauthor of man's moral nature, the governor among the nations, bywhom kings reign and princes decree justice, the rewarder of thegood, and the punisher of the bad. Confucius preferred to speak ofHeaven. Instances have already been given of this. Two others maybe cited:-- 'He who offends against Heaven has none to whom hecan pray [3]?' 'Alas! ' said he, 'there is no one that knows me.'Tsze-kung said, 'What do you mean by thus saying that no oneknows you?' He replied, 'I do not murmur against Heaven. I do[footnote continued from previous page] its scope and meaning,and up to this time I have not been able to master it so as tospeak positively about it. It will come in due time, in its place, inthe present Publication, and I do not think that what I here say ofConfucius will require much, if any, modification.' So I wrote in1861; and I at last accomplished a translation of the Yi, whichwas published in 1882, as the sixteenth volume of 'The SacredBooks of 'the East.' I should like to bring out a revision of thatversion, with the Chinese text, so as to make it uniform with thevolumes of the Classics previously published. But as Yang Ho saidto Confucius, 'The years do not wait for us.'1 Ana. VII. xvii; xxiv; xx.2 See Hardwick's 'Christ and other Masters,' Part iii, pp. 18, 19,with his reference in a note to a passage from Meadows's 'TheChinese and their Rebellions.'3 Ana. III. xiii.not grumble against men. My studies lie low, and my penetrationrises high. But there is Heaven;-- THAT knows me [1]!' Not oncethroughout the Analects does he use the personal name. I wouldsay that he was unreligious rather than irreligious; yet by thecoldness of his temperament and intellect in this matter, hisinfluence is unfavourable to the development of ardent religiousfeeling among the Chinese people generally; and he prepared theway for the speculations of the literati of medieval and moderntimes, which have exposed them to the charge of atheism.	Secondly, Along with the worship of God there existed inChina, from the earliest historical times, the worship of otherspiritual beings,-- especially, and to every individual, theworship of departed ancestors. Confucius recognised this as aninstitution to be devoutly observed. 'He sacrificed to the dead asif they were present; he sacrificed to the spirits as if the spiritswere present. He said. "I consider my not being present at thesacrifice as if I did not sacrifice [2]."' The custom must haveoriginated from a belief in the continued existence of the dead.We cannot suppose that they who instituted it thought that withthe cessation of this life on earth there was a cessation also ofall conscious being. But Confucius never spoke explicitly on thissubject. He tried to evade it. 'Chi Lu asked about serving thespirits of the dead, and the master said, "While you are not ableto serve men, how can you serve their spirits?" The discipleadded, "I venture to ask about death," and he was answered, "Whileyou do not know life, how can you know about death [3]."' Stillmore striking is a conversation with another disciple, recorded inthe 'Narratives of the School.' Tsze-kung asked him, saying, 'Dothe dead have knowledge (of our services, that is), or are theywithout knowledge?' The master replied, 'If I were to say that thedead have such knowledge, I am afraid that filial sons and dutifulgrandsons would injure their substance in paying the last officesto the departed; and if I were to say that the dead have not suchknowledge, I am afraid lest unfilial sons should leave theirparents unburied. You need not wish, Tsze, to know whether thedead have knowledge or not. There is no present urgency about thepoint. Hereafter you will know it for yourself [4].' Surely this wasnot the teaching proper to a sage.1 Ana. XIV. xxxvii.2 Ana. III. xii.3 Ana. XI. xi.4 ?a?y, ???G, art. ?P??, towards the end.He said on one occasion that he had no concealments from hisdisciples [1]. Why did he not candidly tell his real thoughts on sointeresting a subject? I incline to think that he doubted morethan he believed. If the case were not so, it would be difficult toaccount for the answer which he returned to a question as towhat constituted wisdom:-- 'To give one's self earnestly,' saidhe, 'to the duties due to men, and, while respecting spiritualbeings, to keep aloof from them, may be called wisdom [2].' At anyrate, as by his frequent references to Heaven, instead offollowing the phraseology of the older sages, he gave occasion tomany of his professed followers to identify God with a principleof reason and the course of nature; so, in the point now in hand, hehas led them to deny, like the Sadducees of old, the existence ofany spirit at all, and to tell us that their sacrifices to the deadare but an outward form, the mode of expression which theprinciple of filial piety requires them to adopt when its objectshave departed this life.	It will not be supposed that I wish to advocate or to defendthe practice of sacrificing to the dead. My object has been topoint out how Confucius recognised it, without acknowledging thefaith from which it must have originated, and how he enforced itas a matter of form or ceremony. It thus connects itself with themost serious charge that can be brought against him,-- the chargeof insincerity. Among the four things which it is said he taught,'truthfulness' is specified [3], and many sayings might be quotedfrom him, in which 'sincerity' is celebrated as highly anddemanded as stringently as ever it has been by any Christianmoralist; yet he was not altogether the truthful and true man towhom we accord our highest approbation. There was the case ofMang Chih-fan, who boldly brought up the rear of the defeatedtroops of Lu, and attributed his occupying the place of honour tothe backwardness of his horse. The action was gallant, but theapology for it was weak and unnecessary. And yet Confucius sawnothing in the whole but matter for praise [4]. He could excusehimself from seeing an unwelcome visitor on the ground that hewas sick, when there was nothing the matter with him [5]. Thesewere small matters, but what shall we say to the incident whichI have given in the sketch of his Life, p. 79,-- his deliberatelybreaking the oath which he had sworn, simply on the ground thatit had been forced from him?1 Ana. VII. xxiii.2 Ana. VI. xx.3 See above, near the beginning of this paragraph.4 Ana. VI. xiii.5 Am. XVII. xx.I should be glad if I could find evidence on which to deny the truthof that occurrence. But it rests on the same authority as mostother statements about him, and it is accepted as a fact by thepeople and scholars of China. It must have had, and it must stillhave, a very injurious influence upon them. Foreigners charge ahabit of deceitfulness upon the nation and its government;-- onthe justice or injustice of this charge I say nothing. For everyword of falsehood and every act of insincerity, the guilty partymust bear his own burden, but we cannot but regret the exampleof Confucius in this particular. It is with the Chinese and theirsage, as it was with the Jews of old and their teachers. He thatleads them has caused them to err, and destroyed the way of theirpaths [1].	But was not insincerity a natural result of the un-religionof Confucius? There are certain virtues which demand a truepiety in order to their flourishing in the heart of man. Naturalaffection, the feeling of loyalty, and enlightened policy, may domuch to build up and preserve a family and a state, but it requiresmore to maintain the love of truth, and make a lie, spoken oracted, to be shrunk from with shame. It requires in fact the livingrecognition of a God of truth, and all the sanctions of revealedreligion. Unfortunately the Chinese have not had these, and theexample of him to whom they bow down as the best and wisest ofmen, does not set them against dissimulation.	7. I go on to a brief discussion of Confucius's views ongovernment, or what we may call his principles of politicalscience. It[sidebar] His views on government.could not be in his long intercourse with his disciples but that heshould enunciate many maxims bearing on character and moralsgenerally, but he never rested in the improvement of theindividual. 'The kingdom, the world, brought to a state of happytranquillity [2],' was the grand object which he delighted to thinkof; that it might be brought about as easily as 'one can look uponthe palm of his hand,' was the dream which it pleased him toindulge [3]. He held that there was in men an adaptation andreadiness to be governed, which only needed to be taken advantageof in the proper way. There must be the right administrators, butgiven those, and 'the growth of government would be rapid, justas vegetation is rapid in the earth; yea, their1 Isaiah iii. 12.2 ??U??. See the ?j??, ?g, pars. 4, 5; &c.3 Ana. III. xi; et al.government would display itself like an easily-growing rush [1].'The same sentiment was common from the lips of Mencius.Enforcing it one day, when conversing with one of the petty rulersof his time, he said in his peculiar style, 'Does your Majestyunderstand the way of the growing grain? During the seventh andeighth months, when drought prevails, the plants become dry.Then the clouds collect densely in the heavens; they send downtorrents of rain, and the grain erects itself as if by a shoot. Whenit does so, who can keep it back [2]?' Such, he contended, would bethe response of the mass of the people to any true 'shepherd ofmen.' It may be deemed unnecessary that I should specify thispoint, for it is a truth applicable to the people of all nations.Speaking generally, government is by no device or cunningcraftiness; human nature demands it. But in no other family ofmankind is the characteristic so largely developed as in theChinese. The love of order and quiet, and a willingness to submitto 'the powers that be,' eminently distinguish them. Foreignwriters have often taken notice of this, and have attributed it tothe influence of Confucius's doctrines as inculcatingsubordination; but it existed previous to his time. The characterof the people molded his system, more than it was molded by it.	This readiness to be governed arose, according to Confucius,from 'the duties of universal obligation, or those betweensovereign and minister, between father and son, between husbandand wife, between elder brother and younger, and those belongingto the intercourse of friends [3].' Men as they are born into theworld, and grow up in it, find themselves existing in thoserelations. They are the appointment of Heaven. And each relationhas its reciprocal obligations, the recognition of which is properto the Heaven-conferred nature. It only needs that the sacrednessof the relations be maintained, and the duties belonging to themfaithfully discharged, and the 'happy tranquillity' will prevail allunder heaven. As to the institutions of government, the laws andarrangements by which, as through a thousand channels, it shouldgo forth to carry plenty and prosperity through the length andbreadth of the country, it did not belong to Confucius, 'thethroneless king,' to set them forth minutely. And indeed they wereexisting in the records of 'the ancient sovereigns.' Nothing newwas needed. It was only1 ???e, xx. 3.2 Mencius, I. Pt. I. vi. 6.3 ???e, xx. 8.requisite to pursue the old paths, and raise up the old standards.'The government of Wan and Wu,' he said, 'is displayed in therecords,-- the tablets of wood and bamboo. Let there be the men,and the government will flourish; but without the men, thegovernment decays and ceases [1].' To the same effect was thereply which he gave to Yen Hui when asked by him how thegovernment of a State should be administered. It seems very wideof the mark, until we read it in the light of the sage's venerationfor ancient ordinances, and his opinion of their sufficiency.'Follow,' he said, 'the seasons of Hsia. Ride in the state carriagesof Yin. Wear the ceremonial cap of Chau. Let the music be the Shaowith its pantomimes. Banish the songs of Chang, and keep farfrom specious talkers [2].'	Confucius's idea then of a happy, well-governed State didnot go beyond the flourishing of the five relations of societywhich have been mentioned; and we have not any condensedexhibition from him of their nature, or of the duties belonging tothe several parties in them. Of the two first he spoke frequently,but all that he has said on the others would go into smallcompass. Mencius has said that 'between father and son thereshould be affection; between sovereign and ministerrighteousness; between husband and wife attention to theirseparate functions; between old and young, a proper order; andbetween friends, fidelity [3].' Confucius, I apprehend, wouldhardly have accepted this account. It does not bring outsufficiently the authority which he claimed for the father and thesovereign, and the obedience which he exacted from the child andthe minister. With regard to the relation of husband and wife, hewas in no respect superior to the preceding sages who hadenunciated their views of 'propriety' on the subject. We have asomewhat detailed exposition of his opinions in the 'Narratives ofthe School.'-- 'Man,' said he, 'is the representative of Heaven, andis supreme over all things. Woman yields obedience to theinstructions of man, and helps to carry out his principles [4]. Onthis account she can determine nothing of herself, and is subjectto the rule of the three obediences. When young, she must obey herfather and elder brother; when married, she must obey herhusband;1 ???e, xx. 2.2 Ana. XV. x.3 Mencius, III. Pt. I. iv. 8.4 ?k?l??, ????D????U????]; ?k?l??, ???k?l???D, ?????z??].when her husband is dead, she must obey her son. She may notthink of marrying a second time. No instructions or orders mustissue from the harem. Woman's business is simply the preparationand supplying of drink and food. Beyond the threshold of herapartments she should not be known for evil or for good. She maynot cross the boundaries of the State to attend a funeral. She maytake no step on her own motion, and may come to no conclusion onher own deliberation. There are five women who are not to betaken in marriage:-- the daughter of a rebellious house; thedaughter of a disorderly house; the daughter of a house which hasproduced criminals for more than one generation; the daughter ofa leprous house; and the daughter who has lost her father andelder brother. A wife may be divorced for seven reasons, which,however, may be overruled by three considerations. The groundsfor divorce are disobedience to her husband's parents; not givingbirth to a son; dissolute conduct; jealousy-- (of her husband'sattentions, that is, to the other inmates of his harem);talkativeness; and thieving. The three considerations which mayoverrule these grounds are-- first, if, while she was taken from ahome, she has now no home to return to; second, if she havepassed with her husband through the three years' mourning for hisparents; third, if the husband have become rich from being poor.All these regulations were adopted by the sages in harmony withthe natures of man and woman, and to give importance to theordinance of marriage [1].'	With these ideas of the relations of society, Confuciusdwelt much on the necessity of personal correctness of characteron the part of those in authority, in order to secure the rightfulfillment of the duties implied in them. This is one grandpeculiarity of his teaching. I have adverted to it in the review of'The Great Learning,' but it deserves some further exhibition, andthere are three conversations with the chief Chi K'ang in which itis very expressly set forth. 'Chi K'ang asked about government,and Confucius replied, "To govern means to rectify. If you lead onthe people with correctness, who will dare not to be correct?"''Chi K'ang, distressed about the number of thieves in the State,inquired of Confucius about how to do away with them. Confuciussaid, "If you, sir, were not covetous, though you should rewardthem to do it, they would not steal."' 'Chi K'ang asked aboutgovernment,1 ?a?y???T, ???R??saying, "What do you say to killing the unprincipled for the goodof the principled?" Confucius replied, "Sir, in carrying on yourgovernment, why should you use killing at all? Let your evinceddesires be for what is good, and the people will be good. Therelation between superiors and inferiors is like that between thewind and the grass. The grass must bend, when the wind blowsacross it [1]."'	Example is not so powerful as Confucius in these and manyother passages represented it, but its influence is very great. Itsvirtue is recognised in the family, and it is demanded in thechurch of Christ. 'A bishop'-- and I quote the term with the simplemeaning of overseer-- 'must be blameless.' It seems to me,however, that in the progress of society in the West we havecome to think less of the power of example in many departmentsof state than we ought to do. It is thought of too little in thearmy and the navy. We laugh at the 'self-denying ordinance,' andthe 'new model' of 1644, but there lay beneath them the principlewhich Confucius so broadly propounded,-- the importance ofpersonal virtue in all who are in authority. Now that Great Britainis the governing power over the masses of India and that we arecoming more and more into contact with tens of thousands of theChinese, this maxim of our sage is deserving of seriousconsideration from all who bear rule, and especially from thoseon whom devolves the conduct of affairs. His words on thesusceptibility of the people to be acted on by those above themought not to prove as water spilt on the ground.	But to return to Confucius.-- As he thus lays it down thatthe mainspring of the well-being of society is the personalcharacter of the ruler, we look anxiously for what directions hehas given for the cultivation of that. But here he is verydefective. 'Self-adjustment and purification,' he said, 'withcareful regulation of his dress, and the not making a movementcontrary to the rules of propriety;-- this is the way for the rulerto cultivate his person [2].' This is laying too much stress on whatis external; but even to attain to this is beyond unassisted humanstrength. Confucius, however, never recognised a disturbance ofthe moral elements in the constitution of man. The people wouldmove, according to him, to the virtue of their ruler as the grassbends to the wind, and that virtue1 Ana. XII. xvii; xviii; xix.2 ???e, xx. 14.would come to the ruler at his call. Many were the lamentationswhich he uttered over the degeneracy of his times; frequent werethe confessions which he made of his own shortcomings. It seemsstrange that it never came distinctly before him, that there is apower of evil in the prince and the peasant, which no efforts oftheir own and no instructions of sages are effectual to subdue.	The government which Confucius taught was a despotism,but of a modified character. He allowed no 'jus divinum,'independent of personal virtue and a benevolent rule. He has notexplicitly stated, indeed, wherein lies the ground of the greatrelation of the governor and the governed, but his views on thesubject were, we may assume, in accordance with the language ofthe Shu-ching:-- 'Heaven and Earth are the parents of all things,and of all things men are the most intelligent. The man amongthem most distinguished for intelligence becomes chief ruler, andought to prove himself the parent of the people [1].' And again,'Heaven, protecting the inferior people, has constituted for themrulers and teachers, who should be able to be assisting to God,extending favour and producing tranquillity throughout all partsof the kingdom [2].' The moment the ruler ceases to be a ministerof God for good, and does not administer a government that isbeneficial to the people, he forfeits the title by which he holdsthe throne, and perseverance in oppression will surely lead to hisoverthrow. Mencius inculcated this principle with a frequency andboldness which are remarkable. It was one of the things aboutwhich Confucius did not like to talk. Still he held it. It isconspicuous in the last chapter of 'The Great Learning.' Itstendency has been to check the violence of oppression, andmaintain the self-respect of the people, all along the course ofChinese history.	I must bring these observations on Confucius's views ofgovernment to a close, and I do so with two remarks. First, theyare adapted to a primitive, unsophisticated state of society. He isa good counsellor for the father of a family, the chief of a clan,and even the head of a small principality. But his views want thecomprehension which would make them of much service in a greatdominion. Within three centuries after his death,the governmentof China passed into a new phase. The founder of the Ch'in dynastyconceived the grand idea of abolishing all its feudal kingdoms,and centralizing their administration in himself. He effected therevo-l 2 See the Shu-ching, V. i. Sect. I. 2, 7.lution, and succeeding dynasties adopted his system, andgradually molded it into the forms and proportions which are nowexisting. There has been a tendency to advance, and Confucius hasall along been trying to carry the nation back. Principles havebeen needed, and not 'proprieties.' The consequence is that Chinahas increased beyond its ancient dimensions, while there has beenno corresponding development of thought. Its body politic has thesize of a giant, while it still retains the mind of a child. Its hoaryage is in danger of becoming but senility.	Second, Confucius makes no provision for the intercourse ofhis country with other and independent nations. He knew indeed ofnone such. China was to him 'The Middle Kingdom [1],' 'Themultitude of Great States [2],' 'All under heaven [3].' Beyond itwere only rude and barbarous tribes. He does not speak of thembitterly, as many Chinese have done since his time. In one placehe contrasts their condition favourably with the prevailinganarchy of the kingdom, saying 'The rude tribes of the east andnorth have their princes, and are not like the States of our greatland which are without them [4].' Another time, disgusted withthe want of appreciation which he experienced, he was expressinghis intention to go and live among the nine wild tribes of the east.Some one said, 'They are rude. How can you do such a thing?' Hisreply was, 'If a superior man dwelt among them, what rudenesswould there be [5]?' But had he been a ruler-sage, he would notonly have influenced them by his instructions, but brought themto acknowledge and submit to his sway, as the great Yu did [6].The only passage of Confucius's teachings from which any rulecan be gathered for dealing with foreigners is that in the'Doctrine of the Mean,' where 'indulgent treatment of men from adistance' is laid down as one of the nine standard rules for thegovernment of the country [7]. But 'the men from a distance' areunderstood to be pin and lu [8] simply,-- 'guests,' that is, orofficers of one State seeking employment in another, or at theroyal court; and 'visitors,' or travelling merchants. Of independentnations the ancient classics have not any knowledge, nor hasConfucius. So long as merchants from Europe and other parts ofthe world could have been content to appear in China assuppliants, seeking the privilege of trade, so1 ????.2 ??L; Ana. III. v.3 ??U; passim.4 Ana. III. v.5 Ana. IX. xiii.6 ??g, III. ii. 10; et al.7 ?X???H.8 ????.long the government would have ranked them with the barbaroushordes of antiquity, and given them the benefit of the maximabout 'indulgent treatment,' according to its own understanding ofit. But when their governments interfered, and claimed to treatwith that of China on terms of equality, and that their subjectsshould be spoken to and of as being of the same clay with theChinese themselves, an outrage was committed on tradition andprejudice, which it was necessary to resent with vehemence.	I do not charge the contemptuous arrogance of the Chinesegovernment and people upon Confucius; what I deplore, is that heleft no principles on record to check the development of such aspirit. His simple views of society and government were in ameasure sufficient for the people while they dwelt apart fromthe rest of mankind. His practical lessons were better than ifthey had been left, which but for him they probably would havebeen, to fall a prey to the influences of Taoism and Buddhism, butthey could only subsist while they were left alone. Of the earthearthy, China was sure to go to pieces when it came into collisionwith a Christianly-civilized power. Its sage had left it nopreservative or restorative elements against such a case.	It is a rude awakening from its complacency of centurieswhich China has now received. Its ancient landmarks are sweptaway. Opinions will differ as to the justice or injustice of thegrounds on which it has been assailed, and I do not feel called tojudge or to pronounce here concerning them. In the progress ofevents, it could hardly be but that the collision should come; andwhen it did come it could not be but that China should be brokenand scattered. Disorganization will go on to destroy it more andmore, and yet there is hope for the people, with their venerationfor the relations of society, with their devotion to learning, andwith their habits of industry and sobriety; there is hope for them,if they will look away from all their ancient sages, and turn toHim, who sends them, along with the dissolution of their ancientstate, the knowledge of Himself, the only living and true God, andof Jesus Christ whom He hath sent.	8. I have little more to add on the opinions of Confucius.Many of his sayings are pithy, and display much knowledge ofcharacter; but as they are contained in the body of the Work, Iwill not occupy the space here with a selection of those whichhave struck myself as most worthy of notice. The fourth Book ofthe Analects,which is on the subject of zan, or perfect virtue, has severalutterances which are remarkable.	Thornton observes:-- 'It may excite surprise, and probablyincredulity, to state that the golden rule of our Saviour, 'Do untoothers as you would that they should do unto you,' which Mr. Lockedesignates as 'the most unshaken rule of morality, and foundationof all social virtue,' had been inculcated by Confucius, almost inthe same words, four centuries before [1].' I have taken notice ofthis fact in reviewing both 'The Great Learning' and 'The Doctrineof the Mean.' I would be far from grudging a tribute of admirationto Confucius for it. The maxim occurs also twice in the Analects.In Book XV. xxiii, Tsze-kung asks if there be one word which mayserve as a rule of practice for all one's life, and is answered, 'Isnot reciprocity such a word? What you do not want done toyourself do not do to others.' The same disciple appears in Book V.xi, telling Confucius that he was practising the lesson. He says,'What I do not wish men to do to me, I also wish not to do to men;'but the master tells him, 'Tsze, you have not attained to that.' Itwould appear from this reply, that he was aware of the difficultyof obeying the precept ; and it is not found, in its condensedexpression at least, in the older classics. The merit of it isConfucius's own.	When a comparison, however, is drawn between it and therule laid down by Christ, it is proper to call attention to thepositive form of the latter, 'All things whatsoever ye would thatmen should do unto you, do ye even so to them.' The lesson of thegospel commands men to do what they feel to be right and good. Itrequires them to commence a course of such conduct, withoutregard to the conduct of others to themselves. The lesson ofConfucius only forbids men to do what they feel to be wrong andhurtful. So far as the point of priority is concerned, moreover,Christ adds, 'This is the law and the prophets.' The maxim was tobe found substantially in the earlier revelations of God. Still itmust be allowed that Confucius was well aware of theimportance of taking the initiative in discharging all therelations of society. See his words as quoted from 'The Doctrineof the Mean' on pages 48, 49 above. But the worth of the twomaxims depends on the intention of the enunciators in regard totheir application. Confucius, it seems to me, did not think of thereciprocity coming into action beyond the circle of his fiverelations of society. Possibly, he might have1 History of China, vol. i. p. 209.required its observance in dealings even with the rude tribes,which were the only specimens of mankind besides his owncountrymen of which he knew anything, for on one occasion, whenasked about perfect virtue, he replied, 'It is, in retirement, to besedately grave; in the management of business, to be reverentlyattentive; in intercourse with others, to be strictly sincere.Though a man go among the rude uncultivated tribes, thesequalities may not be neglected [1].' Still Confucius delivered hisrule to his countrymen only, and only for their guidance in theirrelations of which I have had so much occasion to speak. The ruleof Christ is for man as man, having to do with other men, all withhimself on the same platform, as the children and subjects of theone God and Father in heaven.	How far short Confucius came of the standard of Christianbenevolence, may be seen from his remarks when asked what wasto be thought of the principle that injury should be recompensedwith kindness. He replied, 'With what then will you recompensekindness? Recompense injury with justice, and recompensekindness with kindness [2].' The same deliverance is given in oneof the Books of the Li Chi, where he adds that 'he whorecompenses injury with kindness is a man who is careful of hisperson [3].' Chang Hsuan, the commentator of the second century,says that such a course would be 'incorrect in point of propriety[4].' This 'propriety' was a great stumbling-block in the way ofConfucius. His morality was the result of the balancings of hisintellect, fettered by the decisions of men of old, and not thegushings of a loving heart, responsive to the promptings ofHeaven, and in sympathy with erring and feeble humanity.	This subject leads me on to the last of the opinions ofConfucius which I shall make the subject of remark in this place.A commentator observes, with reference to the inquiry aboutrecompensing injury with kindness, that the questioner wasasking only about trivial matters, which might be dealt with inthe way he mentioned, while great offences, such as thoseagainst a sovereign or a father, could not be dealt with by such aninversion of the principles of justice [5]. In the second Book ofthe Li Chi there is the following passage:-- 'With the slayer ofhis father, a man may not live under the same heaven; against theslayer of his brother, a man must never have to go home to fetch aweapon; with the slayer of1 Ana. XIII. xix.2 Ana. XIV. xxxvi.3 ?O, ??O, par. 12.4 ?D????.5 See notes in loc., p. 288.his friend, a man may not live in the same State [1].' The lextalionis is here laid down in its fullest extent. The Chau Li tellsus of a provision made against the evil consequences of theprinciple, by the appointment of a minister called 'The Reconciler[2].' The provision is very inferior to the cities of refuge whichwere set apart by Moses for the manslayer to flee to from thefury of the avenger. Such as it was, however, it existed, and it isremarkable that Confucius, when consulted on the subject, tookno notice of it, but affirmed the duty of blood-revenge in thestrongest and most unrestricted terms. His disciple Tsze-hsiaasked him, 'What course is to be pursued in the case of the murderof a father or mother?' He replied, 'The son must sleep upon amatting of grass, with his shield for his pillow; he must declineto take office; he must not live under the same heaven with theslayer. When he meets him in the marketplace or the court, hemust have his weapon ready to strike him.' 'And what is thecourse on the murder of a brother?' 'The surviving brother mustnot take office in the same State with the slayer; yet if he go onhis prince's service to the State where the slayer is, though hemeet him, he must not fight with him.' 'And what is the course onthe murder of an uncle or a cousin?' 'In this case the nephew orcousin is not the principal. If the principal on whom the revengedevolves can take it, he has only to stand behind with his weaponin his hand, and support him [3].'	Sir John Davis has rightly called attention to this as one ofthe objectionable principles of Confucius [4]. The bad effects of itare evident even in the present day. Revenge is sweet to theChinese. I have spoken of their readiness to submit togovernment, and wish to live in peace, yet they do not like toresign even to government the 'inquisition for blood.' Where theruling authority is feeble, as it is at present, individuals andclans take the law into their own hands, and whole districts arekept in a state of constant feud and warfare.	But I must now leave the sage. I hope I have not done himinjustice; the more I have studied his character and opinions, themore highly have I come to regard him. He was a very great man,and his influence has been on the whole a great benefit to theChinese, while his teachings suggest important lessons toourselves who profess to belong to the school of Christ.1 ?O, I. Sect. I. Pt. v. 10.2 ?P, ?????Q?|, pp. 14-18.3  ?O, II. Sect. I. Pt. ii. 24. See also the ?a?y, ???|, ?l?^??.4 The Chinese, vol. ii. p. 41.SECTION III.HIS IMMEDIATE DISCIPLES.	Sze-ma Ch'ien makes Confucius say: 'The disciples whoreceived my instructions, and could themselves comprehend them,were seventy-seven individuals. They were all scholars ofextraordinary ability [1].' The common saying is, that thedisciples of the sage were three thousand, while among themthere were seventy-two worthies. I propose to give here a list ofall those whose names have come down to us, as being hisfollowers. Of the greater number it will be seen that we knownothing more than their names and surnames. My principalauthorities will be the 'Historical Records,' the 'Narratives of theSchool,' 'The Sacrificial Canon for the Sage's Temple, withPlates,' and the chapter on 'The Disciples of Confucius' prefixed tothe 'Four Books, Text and Commentary, with Proofs andIllustrations.' In giving a few notices of the better-knownindividuals, I will endeavour to avoid what may be gathered fromthe Analects.	1. Yen Hui, by designation Tsze-yuan (?C?^, ?r?l?W). He was anative of Lu, the favourite of his master, whose junior he was bythirty years, and whose disciple he became when he was quite ayouth. 'After I got Hui,' Confucius remarked, 'the disciples camecloser to me.' We are told that once, when he found himself on theNang hill with Hui, Tsze-lu, and Tsze-kung, Confucius asked themto tell him their different aims, and he would choose betweenthem. Tsze-lu began, and when he had done, the master said, 'Itmarks your bravery.' Tsze-kung followed, on whose words thejudgment was, 'They show your discriminating eloquence.' At lastcame Yen Yuan, who said, 'I should like to find an intelligent kingand sage ruler whom I might assist. I would diffuse among thepeople instructions on the five great points, and lead them on bythe rules of propriety and music, so that they should not care tofortify their cities by walls and moats, but would fuse theirswords and spears into implements of agriculture. They shouldsend forth their flocks without fear into the plains and forests.There should be no sunderings of families, no widows orwidowers. For a thousand1 ??l??A???~???q??A?C?Q???C?H?A??????h?].years there would be no calamity of war. Yu would have noopportunity to display his bravery, or Ts'ze to display his oratory.'The master pronounced, 'How admirable is this virtue!'	When Hui was twenty-nine, his hair was all white, and inthree years more he died. He was sacrificed to, along withConfucius, by the first emperor of the Han dynasty. The titlewhich he now has in the sacrificial Canon,-- 'Continuator of theSage,' was conferred in the ninth year of the emperor, or, to speakmore correctly, of the period, Chia-ching, A. D. 1530. Almost allthe present sacrificial titles of the worthies in the temple werefixed at that time. Hui's place is the first of the four Assessors,on the east of the sage [1].	2. Min Sun, styled Tsze-ch'ien (?{?l?A?r?l??). He was a nativeof Lu, fifteen years younger than Confucius, according to Sze-maCh'ien, but fifty years younger, according to the 'Narratives of theSchool,' which latter authority is followed in 'The Annals of theEmpire.' When he first came to Confucius, we are told, he had astarved look [2], which was by-and-by exchanged for one offulness and satisfaction [3]. Tsze-kung asked him how the changehad come about. He replied, 'I came from the midst of my reedsand sedges into the school of the master. He trained my mind tofilial piety, and set before me the examples of the ancient kings. Ifelt a pleasure in his instructions; but when I went abroad, andsaw the people in authority, with their umbrellas and banners,and all the pomp and circumstance of their trains, I also feltpleasure in that show. These two things assaulted each other in1 I have referred briefly, at p. 91, to the temples of Confucius.The principal hall, called ?j????, or 'Hall of the Great andComplete One,' is that in which is his own statue or the tablet ofhis spirit, having on each side of it, within a screen, the statues,or tablets, of his 'four Assessors.' On the east and west, along thewalls of the same apartment, are the two ??, the places of the ?Q?G??, or 'twelve Wise Ones,' those of his disciples, who, next tothe 'Assessors,' are counted worthy of honour. Outside thisapartment, and running in a line with the two ??, but along theexternal wall of the sacred inclosure, are the two ?u, or side-galleries, which I have sometimes called the ranges of the outercourt. In each there are sixty-four tablets of the disciples andother worthies, having the same title as the Wise Ones, that of ????, or 'Ancient Worthy,' or the inferior title of ????, 'AncientScholar.' Behind the principal hall is the ?R?t????, sacred toConfucius's ancestors, whose tablets are in the centre, frontingthe south, like that of Confucius. On each side are likewise thetablets of certain 'ancient Worthies,' and 'ancient Scholars.'2 ???.3 ?????.my breast. I could not determine which to prefer, and so I worethat look of distress. But now the lessons of our master havepenetrated deeply into my mind. My progress also has been helpedby the example of you my fellow-disciples. I now know what Ishould follow and what I should avoid, and all the pomp of poweris no more to me than the dust of the ground. It is on this accountthat I have that look of fulness and satisfaction.' Tsze-ch'ien washigh in Confucius's esteem. He was distinguished for his purityand filial affection. His place in the temple is the first, east,among 'The Wise Ones,' immediately after the four assessors. Hewas first sacrificed to along with Confucius, as is to beunderstood of the other 'Wise Ones,' excepting in the case of YuZo, in the eighth year of the style K'ai-yuan of the sixth emperorof the T'ang dynasty, A.D. 720. His title, the same as that of allbut the Assessors, is-- 'The ancient Worthy, the philosopher Min.'	3 . Zan Kang, styled Po-niu (?T??, ?r?? [al. ??] ??). He was anative of Lu, and Confucius's junior only by seven years. WhenConfucius became minister of Crime, he appointed Po-niu to theoffice, which he had himself formerly held, of commandant ofChung-tu. His tablet is now fourth among 'The Wise Ones,' on thewest.	4. Zan Yung, styled Chung-kung (?T?l, ?r??}). He was of thesame clan as Zan Kang, and twenty-nine years younger thanConfucius. He had a bad father, but the master declared that wasnot to be counted to him, to detract from his admitted excellence.His place is among 'The Wise Ones,' the second, east.	5. Zan Ch'iu, styled Tsze-yu (?T?D, ?r?l??). He was related tothe two former, and of the same age as Chung-kung. He was notedamong the disciples for his versatile ability and manyacquirements. Tsze-kung said of him, 'Respectful to the old, andkind to the young; attentive to guests and visitors; fond oflearning and skilled in many arts; diligent in his examination ofthings:-- these are what belong to Zan Ch'iu." It has been noted inthe life of Confucius that it was by the influence of Tsze-yu thathe was finally restored to Lu. He occupies the third place, west,among 'The Wise Ones.'	6. Chung Yu, styled Tsze-lu and Chi-lu (???, ?r?l??, ?S?r?u??).He was a native of P'ien (??) in Lu and onlynine years younger than Confucius. At their first interview, themaster asked him what he was fond of, and he replied, 'My longsword.' Confucius said, 'If to your present ability there wereadded the results of learning, you would be a very superior man.''Of what advantage would learning be to me?' asked Tsze-lu.'There is a bamboo on the southern hill, which is straight itselfwithout being bent. If you cut it down and use it, you can send itthrough a rhinoceros's hide;-- what is the use of learning?' 'Yes,'said the master; 'but if you feather it and point it with steel, willit not penetrate more deeply?' Tsze-lu bowed ' twice, and said, 'Iwill reverently receive your instructions.' Confucius was wont tosay, 'From the time that I got Yu, bad words no more came to myears.' For some time Tsze-lu was chief magistrate of the districtof P'u (?Z), where his administration commanded the warmcommendations of the master. He died finally in Wei, as has beenrelated above, pp. 86, 87. His tablet is now the fourth, east, fromthose of the Assessors.	7. Tsai Yu styled Tsze-wo (?_??, ?r?l??). He was a native ofLu, but nothing is mentioned of his age. He had 'a sharp mouth,'according to Sze-ma Ch'ien. Once, when he was at the court ofCh'u on some commission, the king Chao offered him an easycarriage adorned with ivory for his master. Yu replied, 'My masteris a man who would rejoice in a government where rightprinciples were carried out, and can find his joy in himself whenthat is not the case. Now right principles and virtue are as itwere in a state of slumber. His wish is to rouse and put them inmotion. Could he find a prince really anxious to rule according tothem, he would walk on foot to his court and be glad to do so. Whyneed he receive such a valuable gift, as this from so great adistance?' Confucius commended this reply; but where he ismentioned in the Analects, Tsze-wo does not appear to greatadvantage. He took service in the State of Ch'i, and was chiefmagistrate of Lin-tsze, where he joined with T'ien Ch'ang in somedisorderly movement [1], which led to the destruction of hiskindred, and made Confucius ashamed of him. His tablet is nowthe second, west, among 'The Wise Ones.'	8. Twan-mu Ts'ze, styled Tsze-kung (????, ?r?l?^ [al. ?l?B]),whose place is now third, east, from the Assessors. He1 ?P??`?@??. See Sze-ma Ch'ien's Biographies, chap. 7, thoughcome have doubted the genuineness of this part of the notice ofTsze-wo.was a native of Wei (??), and thirty-one years younger thanConfucius. He had great quickness of natural ability, and appearsin the Analects as one of the most forward talkers among thedisciples. Confucius used to say, 'From the time that I got Ts'ze,scholars from a distance came daily resorting to me.' Severalinstances of the language which he used to express his admirationof the master have been given in the last section. Here isanother:-- The duke Ching of Ch'i asked Tsze-kung how Chung-niwas to be ranked as a sage. 'I do not know,' was the reply. 'I haveall my life had the heaven over my head, but I do not know itsheight, and the earth under my feet, but I do not know itsthickness. In my serving of Confucius, I am like a thirsty man whogoes with his pitcher to the river, and there he drinks his fill,without knowing the river's depth.' He took leave of Confucius tobecome commandant of Hsin-yang (?H???_), when the master saidto him, 'In dealing with your subordinates, there is nothing likeimpartiality; and when wealth comes in your way, there isnothing like moderation. Hold fast these two things, and do notswerve from them. To conceal men's excellence is to obscure theworthy; and to proclaim people's wickedness is the part of a meanman. To speak evil of those whom you have not sought theopportunity to instruct is not the way of friendship and harmony.'Subsequently Tsze-kung was high in office both in Lu and Wei, andfinally died in Ch'i. We saw how he was in attendance onConfucius at the time of the sage's death. Many of the disciplesbuilt huts near the master's grave, and mourned for him threeyears, but Tsze-kung remained sorrowing alone for three yearsmore.	9. Yen Yen, styled Tsze-yu (????, ?r?l??), now the fourth inthe western range of 'The Wise Ones.' He was a native of Wu (?d),forty-five years younger than Confucius, and distinguished for hisliterary acquirements. Being made commandant of Wu-ch'ang, hetransformed the character of the people by 'proprieties' andmusic, and was praised by the master. After the death ofConfucius, Chi K'ang asked Yen how that event had made nosensation like that which was made by the death of Tsze-ch'an,when the men laid aside their bowstring rings and girdleornaments, and the women laid aside their pearls and ear-rings,and the voice of weeping was heard in the lanes for three months.Yen replied, 'The influences of Tsze-ch'an and my master might becomparedto those of overflowing water and the fattening rain. Whereverthe water in its overflow reaches, men take knowledge of it,while the fattening rain falls unobserved.'	10. Pu Shang, styled Tsze-hsia (?R??, ?r?l?L). It is notcertain to what State he belonged, his birth being assigned to Wei(??), to Wei (?Q), and to Wan (??). He was forty-five years youngerthan Confucius, and lived to a great age, for we find him, B.C. 406,at the court of the prince Wan of Wei (?Q), to whom he gave copiesof some of the classical Books. He is represented as a scholarextensively read and exact, but without great comprehension ofmind. What is called Mao's Shih-ching (???) is said to contain theviews of Tsze-hsia. Kung-yang Kao and Ku-liang Ch'ih are alsosaid to have studied the Ch'un Ch'iu with him. On the occasion ofthe death of his son he wept himself blind. His place is the fifth,east, among 'The Wise Ones.'	11. Chwan-sun Shih, styled Tsze-chang (?F?]?v, ?r?l?i), hashis tablet, corresponding to that of the preceding, on the west. Hewas a native of Ch'an (??), and forty-eight years younger thanConfucius. Tsze-kung said, 'Not to boast of his admirable merit;not to signify joy on account of noble station; neither insolent norindolent; showing no pride to the dependent:-- these are thecharacteristics of Chwan-sun Shih.' When he was sick, he called(his son) Shan-hsiang to him, and said, 'We speak of his end in thecase of a superior man, and of his death in the case of a meanman. May I think that it is going to be the former with me to-day?'	12. Tsang Shan [or Ts'an] styled Tsze-yu (????, ?r?l?? [al. ?l?P]). He was a native of south Wu-ch'ang, and forty-six yearsyounger than Confucius. In his sixteenth year he was sent by hisfather into Ch'u, where Confucius then was, to learn under thesage. Excepting perhaps Yen Hui, there is not a name of greaternote in the Confucian school. Tsze-kung said of him, 'There is nosubject which he has not studied. His appearance is respectful.His virtue is solid. His words command credence. Before greatmen he draws himself up in the pride of self-respect. Hiseyebrows are those of longevity.' He was noted for his filialpiety, and after the death of his parents, he could not read therites of mourning without being led to think of them, and movedto tears. He was a voluminous writer. Ten Books of hiscomposition are said to be contained in the 'Rites of the elder Tai'(?j??). The Classic of Filial Piety he is said to have made underthe eye of Confucius. On his connexion with 'The Great Learning,'see above, Ch. III. Sect. II. He was first associated with thesacrifices to Confucius in A.D. 668, but in 1267 he was advancedto be one of the sage's four Assessors. His title-- 'Exhibitor ofthe Fundamental Principles of the Sage,' dates from the period ofChia-ching, as mentioned in speaking of Yen Hui.	13. Tan-t'ai Mieh-ming, styled Tsze-yu (?F?O????, ?r?l??). Hewas a native of Wu-ch'ang, thirty-nine years younger thanConfucius, according to the 'Historical Records,' but forty-nine,according to the 'Narratives of the School.' He was excessivelyugly, and Confucius thought meanly of his talents in consequence,on his first application to him. After completing his studies, hetravelled to the south as far as the Yang-tsze. Traces of hispresence in that part of the country are still pointed out in thedepartment of Su-chau. He was followed by about three hundreddisciples, to whom he laid down rules for their guidance in theirintercourse with the princes. When Confucius heard of hissuccess, he confessed how he had been led by his bad looks tomisjudge him. He, with nearly all the disciples whose namesfollow, first had a place assigned to him in the sacrifices toConfucius in A.D. 739. The place of his tablet is the second, east,in the outer court, beyond that of the 'Assessors' and 'Wise Ones.'	14. Corresponding to the preceding, on the west, is thetablet of Fu Pu-ch'i styled Tsze-tsien (?W [al. ?K and ?{, all = ??] ????, ?r?l??). He was a native of Lu, and, according to differentaccounts, thirty, forty, and forty-nine years younger thanConfucius. He was commandant of Tan-fu (????_), and hardlyneeded to put forth any personal effort. Wu-ma Ch'i had been inthe same office, and had succeeded by dint of the greatestindustry and toil. He asked Pu-ch'i how he managed so easily forhimself, and was answered, 'I employ men; you employ men'sstrength.' People pronounced Fu to be a superior man. He was alsoa writer, and his works are mentioned in Liu Hsin's Catalogue.	15. Next to that of Mieh-ming is the tablet of Yuan Hsien,styled Tsze-sze (???, ?r?l??) a native of Sung or according toChang Hsuan, of Lu, and younger than Confucius by thirty-sixyears. He was noted for his purity and modesty, and for hishappiness in the principles of the master amid deep poverty.After the death of Confucius, he lived in obscurity in Wei. In thenotes to Ana. VI. iii, I have referred to an interview which he hadwith Tsze-kung.	16. Kung-ye Ch'ang [al. Chih], styled Tsze-ch'ang [al. Tsze-chih], (???M?? [al. ??], ?r?l?? [al. ?l??]), has his tablet next to thatof Pu-ch'i. He was son-in-law to Confucius. His nativity isassigned both to Lu and to Ch'i.	17. Nan-kung Kwo, styled Tsze-yung (?n?c?A [al. ?? and, in the'Narratives of the School,' ?? (T'ao)], ?r?l?e), has the place at theeast next to Yuan Hsien. It is a question much debated whether hewas the same with Nan-kung Chang-shu, who accompaniedConfucius to the court of Chau, or not. On occasion of a firebreaking out in the palace of duke Ai, while others were intent onsecuring the contents of the Treasury, Nan-kung directed hisefforts to save the Library, and to him was owing thepreservation of the copy of the Chau Li which was in Lu, and otherancient monuments.	18. Kung-hsi Ai, styled Chi-ts'ze [al. Chi-ch'an] (????s, ?r?u?? [al. ?u?I]). His tablet follows that of Kung-ye. He was a nativeof Lu, or of Ch'i. Confucius commended him for refusing to takeoffice with any of the Families which were encroaching on theauthority of the princes of the States, and for choosing to endurethe severest poverty rather than sacrifice a tittle of hisprinciples.	19. Tsang Tien, styled Hsi (???[al. ?I], ?r??). .He was thefather of Tsang Shan. His place in the temples is the hall toConfucius's ancestors, where his tablet is the first, west.	20. Yen Wu-yao, styled Lu (?C?L??, ?r??). He was the father ofYen Hui, younger than Confucius by six years. His sacrificial placeis the first, east, in the same hall as the last.	21. Following the tablet of Nan-kung Kwo is that of ShangChu, styled Tsze-mu (??, ?r?l??). To him, it is said, we areindebted for the preservation of the Yi-ching, which he receivedfrom Confucius. Its transmission step by step, from Chu down tothe Han dynasty, is minutely set forth.	22. Next to Kung-hsi Ai is the place of Kao Ch'ai, styledTsze-kao and Chi-kao (????, ?r?l?? [al. ?u??; for ?? moreover, wefind ?o, and ??]), a native of Ch'i, according to the 'Narrativesof the School,' but of Wei, according to Sze-ma Ch'ien and ChangHsuan. He was thirty (some say forty) years younger thanConfucius, dwarfish and ugly, but of great worth and ability. Atone time he was criminal judge of Wei, and in the execution of hisoffice condemned a prisoner to lose his feet. Afterwards thatsame man saved his life, when he was flying from the State.Confucius praised Ch'ai for being able to administer stern justicewith such a spirit of benevolence as to disarm resentment.	23. Shang Chu is followed by Ch'i-tiao K'ai [prop. Ch'i],styled Tsze-k'ai, Tsze-zo, and Tsze-hsiu (???J?} [pr. ??], ?r?l?}, ?l?Y, and ?l???), a native of Ts'ai (??), or according to Chang Hsuan,of Lu. We only know him as a reader of the Shu-ching, and refusingto go into office.	24. Kung-po Liao, styled Tsze-chau (???B??, ?r?l?P). Heappears in the Analects, XIV. xxxiii, slandering Tsze-lu. It isdoubtful whether he should have a place among the disciples.	25. Sze-ma Kang, styled Tsze-niu (?q????, ?r?l??), followsCh'i-tiao K'ai; also styled ????. He was a great talker, a native ofSung, and a brother of Hwan T'ui, to escape from whom seems tohave been the labour of his life.	26. The place next Kao Ch'ai is occupied by Fan Hsu, styledTsze-ch'ih (???, ?r?l??), a native of Ch'i, or, according to others,of Lu, and whose age is given as thirty-six and forty-six yearsyounger than Confucius. When young, he distinguished himself in amilitary command under the Chi family.	27. Yu Zo, styled Tsze-zo (???Y, ?r?l?Y). He was a native ofLu, and his age is stated very variously. He was noted among thedisciples for his great memory and fondness for antiquity. Afterthe death of Confucius, the rest of the disciples, because of somelikeness in Zo's speech to the Master, wished to render the sameobservances to him which they had done to Confucius, but onTsang Shan's demurring to the thing, they abandoned the purpose.The tablet of Tsze-zo is now the sixth, east among 'The WiseOnes,' to which place it was promoted in the third year of Ch'ien-lung of the present dynasty. This was done in compliance with amemorial from the president of one of the Boards, who said hewas moved by a dream to make the request. We may suppose thathis real motives were a wish to do Justice to the merits of Tsze-zo, and to restore the symmetry of the tablets in the 'Hall of theGreat and Complete One,' which had been disturbed by theintroduction of the tablet of Chu Hsi in the preceding reign.	28. Kung-hsi Ch'ih, styled Tsze-hwa (????, ?r?l??), a nativeof Lu, younger than Confucius by forty-two years, whose place isthe fourth, west, in the outer court. He was noted for hisknowledge of ceremonies, and the other disciples devolved on himall the arrangements about the funeral of the Master.	29. Wu-ma Shih [or Ch'i], styled Tsze-Ch'i (????I [al. ??], ?r?l?? [al. ?l?X]), a native of Ch'an, or, according to Chang Hsuan, ofLu, thirty years younger than Confucius. His tablet is on the east,next to that of Sze-ma Kang. It is related that on one occasion,when Confucius was about to set out with a company of thedisciples on a walk or journey, he told them to take umbrellas.They met with a heavy shower, and Wu-ma asked him, saying,'There were no clouds in the morning; but after the sun had risen,you told us to take umbrellas. How did you know that it wouldrain?' Confucius said, 'The moon last evening was in theconstellation Pi, and is it not said in the Shih-ching, "When themoon is in Pi, there will be heavy rain?" It was thus I knew it.'	30. Liang Chan [al. Li], styled Shu-yu (???? [al. ?U] ?r????),occupies the eighth place, west, among the tablets of the outercourt. He was a man of Ch'i, and his age is stated as twenty-nineand thirty-nine years younger than Confucius. The following storyis told in connexion with him.-- When he was thirty, beingdisappointed that he had no son, he was minded to put away hiswife. 'Do not do so,' said Shang Chu to him. 'I was thirty-eightbefore I had a son, and my mother was then about to take anotherwife for me, when the Master proposed sending me to Ch'i. Mymother was unwilling that I should go, but Confucius said, 'Don'tbe anxious. Chu will have five sons after he is forty.' It has turnedout so, and I apprehend it is your fault, and not your wife's, thatyou have no son yet.' Chan took this advice, and in the second yearafter, he had a son.	31. Yen Hsing [al. Hsin, Liu, and Wei], styled Tsze-liu (?C??[al. ??, ?h, and ??], ?r?l?h), occupies the place, east, after Wu-maShih. He was a native of Lu, and forty-six years younger thanConfucius.	32. Liang Chan is followed on the west by Zan Zu, styledTsze-lu [al. Tsze-tsang and Tsze-yu] (?T?? [al. ??] ?r*?l?| [al. ?l??* Digitizer's note: This is ?t in the source text; I have correctedwhat is an obvious misprint.and ?l??]), a native of Lu, and fifty years younger than Confucius.	33. Yen Hsing is followed on the east by Ts'ao Hsu, styledTsze-hsun (???, ?r?l?`), a native of Ts'ai, fifty years younger thanConfucius.	34. Next on the west is Po Ch'ien, styled Tsze-hsi, or, in thecurrent copies of the 'Narratives of the School,' Tsze-ch'iai (?B?@,?r?l?? [al. ?l?R] or ?l??), a native of Lu, fifty years younger thanConfucius.	35. Following Tsze-hsun is Kung-sun Lung [al. Ch'ung] styledTsze-shih (???]?s [al. ?d], ?r?l??), whose birth is assigned bydifferent writers to Wei, Ch'u, and Chao (??). He was fifty-threeyears younger than Confucius. We have the following account:--'Tsze-kung asked Tsze-shih, saying, "Have you not learned theBook of' Poetry?" Tsze-shih replied, "What leisure have I to doso? My parents require me to be filial; my brothers require me tobe submissive; and my friends require me to be sincere. Whatleisure have I for anything else?" "Come to my Master," said Tsze-kung, "and learn of him."'	Sze-ma Ch'ien here observes: 'Of the thirty-five discipleswhich precede, we have some details. Their age and otherparticulars are found in the Books and Records. It is not so,however, in regard to the fifty-two which follow.'	36. Zan Chi, styled Tsze-ch'an [al. Chi-ch'an and Tsze-ta] (?T?u, ?r?l?? [al. ?u?? and ?l?F), a native of Lu, whose place is the11th, west, next to Po Ch'ien.	37. Kung-tsu Kau-tsze or simply Tsze, styled Tsze-chih (??????? [or simply ??], ?r?l??), a native of Lu. His tablet is the 23rd,east, in the outer court.	38. Ch'in Tsu, styled Tsze-nan (????, ?r?l?n), a native ofCh'in. His tablet precedes that of the last, two places.	39. Ch'i-tiao Ch'ih, styled Tsze-lien (???J?G [al. ??], ?r?l??), anative of Lu. His tablet is the 13th, west.	40. Yen Kao, styled Tsze-chiao (?C???r?l?). According to the'Narratives of the School,' he was the same as Yen K'o (??, or ?g),who drove the carriage when Confucius rode in Wei after the dukeand Nan-tsze. But this seems doubtful. Otherauthorities make his name Ch'an (??), and style him Tsze-tsing (?l??). His tablet is the 13th, east.	41. Ch'i-tiao Tu-fu [al. . Ts'ung], styled Tsze-yu, Tsze-ch'i,and Tsze-wan (???J?{?? [al. ?q], ?r?l?? or ?l?? [al. ?l?? and ?l??]), anative of Lu, whose tablet precedes that of Ch'i-tiao Ch'ih.	42. Zang Sze-ch'ih, styled Tsze-t'u, or Tsze-ts'ung (?[ [al. ??]?o??, ?r?l?{ [al. ?l?q]), a native of Ch'in. Some consider Zang-sze(?[?o) to be a double surname. His tablet comes after that of No.40.	43. Shang Chai, styled Tsze-Ch'i and Tsze-hsiu (??A, ?r?l?u[al. ?l?q]), a native of Lu. His tablet is immediately after that ofFan Hsu, No. 26.	44. Shih Tso [al. Chih and Tsze]-shu, styled Tsze-ming (??@[al. ?? and ?l], ??, ?r?l??). Some take Shih-tso (??@) as a doublesurname. His tablet follows that of No. 42.	45. Zan Pu-ch'i, styled Hsuan (??????, ?r??), a native of Ch'u,whose tablet is next to that of No. 28.	46. Kung-liang Zu, styled Tsze-chang (???}?? [al. ??], ?r?l??),a native of Ch'in, follows the preceding in the temples. The'Sacrificial Canon' says:-- 'Tsze-chang was a man of worth andbravery. When Confucius was surrounded and stopped in P'u, Tsze-chang fought so desperately, that the people of P'u were afraid,and let the Master go, on his swearing that he would not proceedto Wei.'	47. Hau [al. Shih] Ch'u [al. Ch'ien], styled Tsze-li [al. Li-ch'ih](?Z [al. ??] ?B [al. ?@], ?r?l?? [al. ????]), a native of Ch'i, having histablet the 17th, east.	48. Ch'in Zan, styled K'ai (???T, ?r?}), a native of Ts'ai. He isnot given in the list of the 'Narratives of the School,' and on thisaccount his tablet was put out of the temples in the ninth year ofChia-tsing. It was restored, however, in the second year of Yung-chang, A.D. 1724, and is the 33rd, east, in the outer court.	49. Kung-hsia Shau, styled Shang [and Tsze-shang] (???L??[al. ?u], ?r?? [and ?l??]), a native of Lu, whose tablet is next to thatof No. 44.	50. Hsi Yung-tien [or simply Tien], styled Tsze-hsi [al. Tsze-chieh and Tsze-ch'ieh] (?t?e? [or ?I], ?r?l?? [al. ?l?? and ?l??]), anative of Wei, having his tablet the 18th, east.	51. Kung Chien-ting [al. Kung Yu], styled Tsze-chung (???? [al.??] ?w [al. ????], ?r?l?? [al. ?? and ??]). His nativity is assigned to Lu,to Wei, and to Tsin (??). He follows No. 46.	52. Yen Tsu [al. Hsiang], styled Hsiang and Tsze-hsiang (?C??[al. ??], ?r??, and ?l??), a native of Lu, with his tablet followingthat of No. 50.	53. Chiao Tan [al. Wu], styled Tsze-kea (?p?? [al. ??], ?r?l?a), a native of Lu. His place is next to that of No. 51.	54. Chu [al. Kau] Tsing-ch'iang [and simply Tsing], styledTsze-ch'iang [al. Tsze-chieh and Tsze-mang] (?y [al. ?? and ?_] ??[and simply ??], ?r?l [al. ?l?? and ?l?s]), a native of Wei,following No. 52.	55. Han [al. Tsai]-fu Hei, styled Tsze-hei [al. Tsze-so andTsze-su] (?u [al. ?_] ????, ?r?l?? [al. ?l?? and ?l??]), a native of Lu,whose tablet is next to that of No. 53.	56. Ch'in Shang, styled Tsze-p'ei [al. P'ei-tsze and Pu-tsze](????, ?r?l?A [al. ?A?? and ????]), a native of Lu, or, according toChang Hsuan, of Ch'u. He was forty years younger than Confucius.One authority, however, says he was only four years younger, andthat his father and Confucius's father were both celebrated fortheir strength. His tablet is the 12th, east.	57. Shin Tang, styled Chau (????r?P). In the 'Narratives ofthe School' there is a Shin Chi, styled Tsze-chau (????, ?r?l?P). Thename is given by others as T'ang (?? and ?l) and Tsu (??), with thedesignation Tsze-tsu (?l??). These are probably the same personmentioned in the Analects as Shin Ch'ang (???). Prior to the Mingdynasty they were sacrificed to as two, but in A.D. 1530, thename Tang was expunged from the sacrificial list, and only thatof Ch'ang left. His tablet is the 31st, east.	58. Yen Chih-p'o, styled Tsze-shu [or simply Shu] (?C????, ?r?l?? [or simply ??]), a native of Lu, who occupies the 29th place,east.	59. Yung Ch'i, styled Tsze-ch'i [al. Tsze-yen] (?a?? [or ??], ?r?l?X or ?l?R [al. ?l?C]), a native of Lu, whose tablet is the 20th,west.*Digitizer's note: The actual variant used by Legge is (???Y?k).	60. Hsien Ch'ang, styled Tsze-ch'i [al. Tsze-hung] (????, ?r?l?? [al. ?l??]), a native of Lu. His place is the 22nd, east.	61. Tso Zan-ying [or simply Ying], styled Hsing and Tsze-hsing (???H?r [or simply ?r], ?r?? and ?l??), a native of Lu. Histablet follows that of No. 59.	62. Yen Chi, styled An [al. Tsze-sze] (?P?? [or ??], ?r?? [al. ?l??) a native of Ch'in. His tablet is the 24th east.	63: Chang Kwo, styled Tsze-t'u (?G??, ?r?l?{), a native of Lu.This is understood to be the same with the Hsieh Pang, styledTsze-ts'ung (????, ?r?l?q), of the 'Narratives of the School.' Histablet follows No. 61.	64. Ch'in Fei, styled Tsze-chih (???D, ?r?l??), a native of Lu,having his tablet the 31st, west.	65. Shih Chih-ch'ang, styled Tsze-hang [al. ch'ang] (?I???`, ?r?l?? [al. ?`]), a native of Lu. His tablet is the 30th, east.	66. Yen K'wai, styled Tsze-shang (?C?D, ?r?l?n), a native ofLu. His tablet is the next to that of No. 64.	67. Pu Shu-shang, styled Tsze-ch'e (?B???? [in the'Narratives of the School' we have an old form of ??], ?r?l??), anative of Ch'i. Sometimes for Pu (?B) we find Shao (??). His tabletis the 30th, west.	68. Yuan K'ang, styled Tsze-chi (??, ?r?l?y), a native of Lu.Sze-ma Ch'ien calls him Yuan K'ang-chi, not mentioning anydesignation. The 'Narratives of the School' makes him Yuan K'ang(??), styled Chi. His tablet is the 23rd, west.	69. Yo K'o [al. Hsin], styled Tsze-shang (????, [al. ?Y], ?r?l?n),a native of Lu. His tablet is the 25th, east.	70. Lien Chieh, styled Yung and Tsze-yung [al. Tsze-ts'ao] (?G??, ?r?e and ?l?e [al. ?l??), a native of Wei, or of Ch'i. His tablet isnext to that of No. 68.	71. Shu-chung Hui [al. K'wai], styled Tsze-ch'i (????| [al. ?D],?r?l??), a native of Lu, or, according to Chang Hsuan, of Tsin. Hewas younger than Confucius by fifty-four years. It is said that heand another youth, called K'ung Hsuan (???o), attended by turnswith their pencils, and acted as amanuenses to the sage, and whenMang Wu-po expressed a doubt of their competency, Confuciusdeclared his satisfaction with them. He follows Lien Chieh in thetemples.	72. Yen Ho, styled Zan (?C??, ?r?T), a native of Lu. The presentcopies of the 'Narratives of the School' do not contain his name,and in A.D. 1588 Zan was displaced from his place in the temples.His tablet, however, has been restored during the present dynasty.It is the 33rd, west.	73. Ti Hei, styled Che [al. Tsze-che and Che-chih] (?f??, ?r?[al. ?l? and ???]), a native of Wei, or of Lu. His tablet is the 26th,east.	74. Kwei [al. Pang] Sun, styled Tsze-lien [al. Tsze-yin] (??(kui1 ??????k) [al. ??] ?S, ?r?l?K [al. ?l??]), a native of Lu. His tabletis the 27th, west.	75. K'ung Chung, styled Tsze-mieh (???, ?r?l??). This wasthe son, it is said, of Confucius's elder brother, the cripple Mang-p'i. His tablet is next to that of No. 73. His sacrificial title is 'Theancient Worthy, the philosopher Mieh.'	76. Kung-hsi Yu-zu [al. Yu], styled Tsze-shang (??????p [al.??], ?r?l?W), a native of Lu. His place is the 26th, west.	77. Kung-hsi Tien, styled Tsze-shang (????? [or ?I], ?r?l?W[al. ?l?|]), a native of Lu. His tablet is the 28th, east.	78. Ch'in Chang [al. Lao], styled Tsze-k'ai (?^?i [al. ?c], ?r?l?}), a native of Wei. His tablet is the 29th, west.	79. Ch'an K'ang, styled Tsze-k'ang [al. Tsze-ch'in] (????, ?r?l?? [al. ?l?V]), a native of Ch'an. See notes on Ana. I. x.	80. Hsien Tan [al. Tan-fu and Fang], styled Tsze-hsiang (???[al. ??? and ??], ?r?l?H), a native of Lu. Some suppose that this isthe same as No. 53. The advisers of the present dynasty in suchmatters, however, have considered them to be different, and in1724, a tablet was assigned to Hsien Tan, the 34th, west.	The three preceding names are given in the 'Narratives ofthe School.'	The research of scholars has added about twenty others.	81. Lin Fang, styled Tsze-ch'iu (?L??, ?r?l??), a native of Lu.The only thing known of him is from the Ana. III. iv. His tabletwas displaced under the Ming, but has been restored by thepresent dynasty. It is the first, west.	82. Chu Yuan, styled Po-yu (???, ?r?B??), an officer of Wei,and, as appears from the Analects and Mencius, an intimatefriend of Confucius. Still his tablet has shared the same changesas that of Lin Fang. It is now the first, east.	83 and 84. Shan Ch'ang (???) and Shan T'ang (???). See No.57.	85. Mu P'i (????), mentioned by Mencius, VII. Pt. II. xxxvii. 4.His entrance into the temple has been under the present dynasty.His tablet is the 34th, east.	86. Tso Ch'iu-ming or Tso-ch'iu Ming (???C??) has the 32ndplace, east. His title was fixed in A.D. 1530 to be 'The AncientScholar,' but in 1642 it was raised to that of 'Ancient Worthy.' Tohim we owe the most distinguished of the annotated editions ofthe Ch'un Ch'iu. But whether he really was a disciple of Confucius,and in personal communication with him, is much debated.	The above are the only names and surnames of those of thedisciples who now share in the sacrifices to the sage. Those whowish to exhaust the subject, mention in addition, on the authorityof Tso Ch'iu-ming, Chung-sun Ho-chi (??]???), a son of Mang Hsi(see p. 63), and Chung-sun Shwo (??]??), also a son of Mang Hsi,supposed by many to be the same with No. 17; Zu Pei, (???d),mentioned in the Analects, XVII. xx, and in the Li Chi, XVIII. Sect.II. ii. 22; Kung-wang Chih-ch'iu (???????) and Hsu Tien (???I),mentioned in the Li Chi, XLIII. 7; Pin-mau Chia (?????), mentionedin the Li Chi, XVII. iii. 16; K'ung Hsuan (???o) and Hai Shu-lan (?f????), on the authority of the 'Narratives of the School;' Ch'ang Chi(?`?u), mentioned by Chwang-tsze; Chu Yu (?|?y), mentioned byYen-tsze (??l); Lien Yu (?G?) and Lu Chun (?|?m), on the authorityof ?????; and finally Tsze-fu Ho (?l?A??), the Tsze-fu Ching-po(?l?A???B) of the Analects, XIV. xxxviii.CHAPTER VI.LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL WORKS WHICH HAVE BEEN CONSULTED INTHE PREPARATION OF THIS VOLUME.SECTION I.CHINESE WORKS, WITH BRIEF NOTICES.	?Q?T?g????, 'The Thirteen Ching, with Commentary andExplanations.' This is the great repertory of ancient lore upon theClassics. On the Analects, it contains the 'Collection ofExplanations of the Lun Yu,' by Ho Yen and others (see p. 19), and'The Correct Meaning,' or Paraphrase of Hsing Ping (see p. 20). Onthe Great Learning and the Doctrine of the Mean, it contains thecomments and glosses of Chang Hsuan, and of K'ung Ying-ta (??o?F) of the T'ang dynasty.	?s????I?|?????, 'A new edition of the Four Books,Punctuated and Annotated, for Reading.' This work was publishedin the seventh year of Tao-kwang (1827) by a Kao Lin (???Y). It isthe finest edition of the Four Books which I have seen, in point oftypographical execution. It is indeed a volume for reading. Itcontains the ordinary 'Collected Comments' of Chu Hsi on theAnalects, and his 'Chapters and Sentences' of the Great Learningand Doctrine of the Mean. The editor's own notes are at the topand bottom of the page, in rubric.	?|????l???q???, 'The Proper Meaning of the Four Books asdetermined by Chu Hsi, Compared with, and Illustrated from,other Commentators.' This is a most voluminous work, publishedin the tenth year of Ch'ien-lung, A.D. 1745, by Wang Pu-ch'ing (???B?C), a member of the Han-lin College. On the Great Learning andthe Doctrine of the Mean, the 'Queries' (???) addressed to Chu Hsiand his replies are given in the same text as the standardcommentary.	?|??g??????, 'The Four Books, Text and Commentary, withProofs and Illustrations.' The copy of this Work which I have wasedited by a Wang T'ing-chi (?L???), in the thirdyear of Chia-ch'ing, A.D. 1798. It may be called a commentary onthe commentary. The research in all matters of Geography,History, Biography, Natural History, &c., is immense.	?|??????n, 'A Collection of the most important Commentsof Scholars on the Four Books.' By Li P'ei-lin (???K?M); published inthe fifty-seventh K'ang-hsi year, A.D. 1718. This Work is about asvoluminous as the ???, but on a different plan. Every chapter ispreceded by a critical discussion of its general meaning, and thelogical connexion of its several paragraphs. This is followed bythe text, and Chu Hsi's standard commentary. We have then aparaphrase, full and generally perspicuous. Next, there is aselection of approved comments, from a great variety of authors;and finally, the reader finds a number of critical remarks andingenious views, differing often from the common interpretation,which are submitted for his examination.	?|???l?????, 'A Supplemental Commentary, and LiteraryDiscussions, on the Four Books.' By Chang Chan-t'ao [al. T'i-an] (?i?? [al. ????]), a member of the Han-lin college, in the early part,apparently, of the reign of Ch'ien-lung. The work is on a peculiarplan. The reader is supposed to be acquainted with Chu Hsi'scommentary, which is not given; but the author generally supportshis views, and defends them against the criticisms of some of theearly scholars of this dynasty. His own exercitations are of thenature of essays more than of commentary. It is a book for thestudent who is somewhat advanced, rather than for the learner. Ihave often perused it with interest and advantage.	?|?????X??, 'The Four Books, according to the Commentary,with Paraphrase.' Published in the eighth year of Yung Chang, A.D.1730, by Wang Fu [al. K'eh-fu] (??_ [al. ?J??]). Every page isdivided into two parts. Below, we have the text and Chu Hsi'scommentary. Above, we have an analysis of every chapter,followed by a paraphrase of the several paragraphs. To theparaphrase of each paragraph are subjoined critical notes,digested from a great variety of scholars, but without themention of their names. A list of 116 is given who are thus laidunder contribution. In addition, there are maps and illustrativefigures at the commencement; and to each Book there are prefixedbiographical notices, explanations of peculiar allusions, &c.	?s?W?|??????????, 'The Four Books, with aComplete Digest of Supplements to the Commentary, andadditional Suggestions. A new edition, with Additions.' By TuTing-chi (???w??). Published A.D. 1779. The original of this Workwas by Tang Lin (?H?L), a scholar of the Ming dynasty. It is perhapsthe best of all editions of the Four Books for a learner. Each pageis divided into three parts. Below, is the text divided intosentences and members of sentences, which are followed by shortglosses. The text is followed by the usual commentary, and thatby a paraphrase, to which are subjoined the Supplements andSuggestions. The middle division contains a critical analysis ofthe chapters and paragraphs; and above, there are the necessarybiographical and other notes.	?|??????, 'The Four Books, with the Relish of the RadicalMeaning.' This is a new Work, published in 1852. It is theproduction of Chin Ch'ang, styled Chi'u-t'an (???J, ?r???), anofficer and scholar, who, returning, apparently to Cantonprovince, from the North in 1836, occupied his retirement withreviewing his literary studies of former years, and employed hissons to transcribe his notes. The writer is fully up in all thecommentaries on the Classics, and pays particular attention tothe labours of the scholars of the present dynasty. To theAnalects, for instance, there is prefixed Chiang Yung's History ofConfucius, with criticisms on it by the author himself. Eachchapter is preceded by a critical analysis. Then follows the textwith the standard commentary, carefully divided into se