it would be     regarded as a germ of division, calculated to retard the operations     of Congress; and that certainly this idea would prevent the     resurrection of American credit.     "Mr. Madison attributed this refusal to the attachment of a great     part of the inhabitants of that State to their paper money and     their tender act. He was much inclined to believe that this     disposition would not remain a long time."In October the Virginia Assembly met. Two thirds of its members wereopposed to the new Constitution, and at their head was Patrick Henry,his zeal against it not in the least abated because he had been defeatedin the late convention. The acceptance of the Constitution by thatrepresentative body could not be recalled. But the Assembly could, atleast, protest against it, and was led by Henry to call upon Congress toconvene a second national convention to do over again the work of thefirst. The legislature was to elect senators for the first Senate underthe new government; and it was also to divide the State into districtsfor its representation in the lower house of Congress. In ordinaryfairness, as the State had, in a popular convention, so recentlyaccepted the Constitution, the party then in the majority was entitledto at least one of the representatives in the Senate. But Henrynominated both, and could command votes enough to elect them. In modernparty usage this would seem quite unobjectionable; indeed, a modernpolitician who should not use such an advantage for his party would beconsidered as unfit for practical politics. But a hundred years ago itwas thought sharp practice, and a fair proportion of Henry's partisansrefused to be bound by it. One of Henry's nominees was elected by amajority of twenty over Madison; but in the case of the other thatmajority was reduced more than half, and a change of five more voteswould have elected Madison.He had, however, neither expected nor wished to be sent to the Senate,while he did hope to be elected to the House of Representatives. TheSenate was intended to be the more dignified body, requiring in itsmembers a certain style of living for which wealth was indispensable.Madison had not the means to give that kind of social support toofficial position; but he could afford to belong to that body where amember was not the less respectable because his whole domesticestablishment might be a bachelor's room in a boarding-house.Virginia was, as he wrote to Washington, "the only instance among theratifying States in which the politics of the legislature are atvariance with the sense of the people, expressed by theirrepresentatives in convention." This had enabled Henry and a majorityof his friends to elect senators who, representing "the politics of thelegislature," did not represent "the sense of the people" in regard tothe national Constitution. But in the election of members of the Houseof Representatives, the sense of the people was to be again appealed to,and a new way must be devised for asserting the supremacy of legislativepower. The cleverness of Elbridge Gerry of Massachusetts, many yearslater, under similar circumstances, introduced a new word into thelanguage of the country, and, it was supposed at the time, a new devicein American politics. But what has since been known as "Gerrymandering"was really the invention of Patrick Henry. This method of arrangingcounties into congressional districts in accordance with their politicalaffinities, without regard to their geographical lines, Henry attemptedto do with Mr. Madison's own county. By joining it to distant countiesit was expected that an anti-Federal majority would be secured largeenough to insure his defeat. The attempt to elect him to the Senate was,Madison wrote to Jefferson, "defeated by Mr. Henry, who is omnipotent inthe present legislature." He adds that Henry "has taken equal pains, informing the counties into districts for the election of representatives,to associate with Orange such as are most devoted to his politics, andmost likely to be swayed by the prejudices excited against me." Thescheme, however, was unsuccessful, perhaps partly because of theindignation which so dishonorable a measure to defeat a politicalopponent excited throughout the State. Madison entered upon an activecanvass of his district against James Monroe, who had been nominated asa moderate anti-Federalist, and defeated him. It was winter time, and inthe exposure of some of his long rides his ears were frozen. In laterlife he sometimes laughingly pointed to the scars of these woundsreceived, he said, in the service of his country.Thus Henry's "Gerrymander," like many another useful and curious device,brought neither profit nor credit to the original inventor. Had Henryacted in the broader spirit of the modern politician, who sees that heserves himself best who serves his party best, he would have disposed ofevery Federal county in the State as he disposed of Orange. As it was,he only aroused a good deal of indignation and defeated himself byopenly aiming to gratify his personal resentments. Had he scattered hisshot for the general good of the party, he would, perhaps, have broughtdown his particular bird.CHAPTER XTHE FIRST CONGRESSThe confederate Congress, at its final session in 1788, had fixed thetime for the election of President and Vice-President under theConstitution, and the time and place for the meeting of the firstCongress of the new government. The day appointed was the firstWednesday of the following March, and, as that date fell on the fourthof the month, a precedent was established which has ever since beenobserved in the installation of a new President. The place was not soeasily determined. The choice lay between New York and Philadelphia, andthe struggle was prolonged, not because the question of the temporaryseat of government was of much moment, but because of the influence thedecision might have upon the future settlement of the permanent placefor the capital.No quorum of the new Congress was present at New York on March 4, 1789,and neither house was organized until early in April. On the 23rdWashington arrived; and on the 30th he took the oath of office as firstPresident of the United States, standing on the balcony of FederalHall, at the corner of Wall and Broad streets, a site now occupied byanother building used as the subtreasury. A week before, when theceremonies proper for such an occasion were a subject of discussion inCongress, the question of fitting titles for the President andVice-President came up for consideration. It was decided that when thePresident arrived the Vice-President should meet him at the door of thesenate chamber, lead him to the chair, and then, in a formal address,inform him that the two houses were ready to witness the administrationof the oath of office. "Upon this," says John Adams in a letter writtenthree years afterward, "I arose in my place and asked the advice of theSenate, in what form I should address him, whether I should say 'Mr.Washington,' 'Mr. President,' 'Sir,' 'May it please your Excellency,' orwhat else? I observed that it had been common while he commanded thearmy to call him 'His Excellency,' but I was free to own it would appearto me better to give him no title but 'Sir,' or 'Mr. President,' than toput him on a level with a governor of Bermuda, or one of his ownambassadors, or a governor of any one of our States."Thereupon the question went to a conference committee of both houses,who reported that no other title would be proper for either President orVice-President, at any time, than those which were given by theConstitution. To this report the Senate disagreed and appointed a newcommittee. This proposed that the President should be called "HisHighness the President of the United States and Protector of theirLiberties." When wise men are absurd they presume on their prerogative.The Senate accepted the report, but the House had the good sense toreject it, consenting, however, to leave the question in abeyance. Onthese proceedings Mr. Madison thus commented in a letter to Jefferson:--     "My last inclosed copies of the President's inaugural speech, and     the answer of the House of Representatives. I now add the answer of     the Senate. It will not have escaped you that the former was     addressed with a truly republican simplicity to George Washington,     President of the United States. The latter follows the example,     with the omission of the personal name, but without any other than     the constitutional title. The proceeding on this point was, in the     House of Representatives, spontaneous. The imitation by the Senate     was extorted. The question became a serious one between the two     houses. J. Adams espoused the cause of titles with great     earnestness. His friend, R. H. Lee, although elected as a     republican enemy to an aristocratic Constitution, was a most     zealous second. The projected title was, His Highness the President     of the United States and the Protector of their Liberties. Had the     project succeeded, it would have subjected the President to a     severe dilemma, and given a deep wound to our infant government."Washington has sometimes been accused of wishing for the title of "HisHighness," and of having suggested it. Had this been true, Madisonwould have been certain to know it, and he was quite incapable ofasserting in that case that such a title would have been to thePresident "a severe dilemma." About Mr. Adams he was perhaps mistaken,as he might easily have been, since he was not a member of the Senate,and probably heard only a confused report of how the question wasbrought before that body. As Mr. Adams's letter, quoted just now, shows,he regarded the charge as a calumny and resented it. He gave them,according to his own statement, no other opinion than that he preferred"Sir," or "Mr. President," as a more proper address than "Excellency," atitle then, as now, pertaining to governors of States. He probably tookno further part in the debate, but it is not impossible that he may inprivate have avowed a preference for some other and higher title thaneither "Mr. President" or "Your Excellency." "For," he said in theexplanatory letter to his friend, "I freely own that I think decent andmoderate titles, as distinctions of offices, are not only harmless, butuseful in society; and that in this country, where I know them to beprized by the people as well as their magistrates as highly as by anypeople or any magistrates in the world, I should think some distinctionbetween the magistrates of the national government and those of thestate governments proper." A distinction might be proper enough if therewere to be any titles whatever; but certainly they were the wiser whopreferred good homespun to threadbare old clothes. Had rags of that sortbeen made a legal uniform, it is almost appalling to reflect upon theabsurdities to which the national fondness for titles would have carriedus.From March 4 to April 1, though the House of Representatives met daily,there were not members enough present to make a quorum. The first realbusiness brought before the House, except that relating to itsorganization, was introduced by Madison, two days after theinauguration. It was a proposition to raise a revenue by duties onimports, and by a tonnage duty on all vessels, American and foreign,bringing goods, wares, or merchandise into the United States. Theessential weakness of the late Confederacy was, first of all, to beremedied by uniform rules for the regulation of trade. Revenue must beprovided for the support of government, and that in a way which shouldnot be oppressive to the people. Commerce, Mr. Madison said, "ought tobe as free as the policy of nations will admit," but government must besupported, and taxes the least burdensome and most easily collected arethose derived from duties on imports. He agreed, however, as he said onthe second day of the debate, with those who would so adjust the dutieson foreign goods as to protect the "infant manufactories" of thecountry. With little interruption this subject was debated for the firstsix weeks of the opening session of the First Congress. No other couldhave been hit upon to test so thoroughly the strength of the new bondof union. It was to brush aside all those trade regulations in theseveral States which each had hitherto thought essential to itsprosperity. Every interest in the country was to be considered, andtheir different, sometimes opposing, claims to be reconciled.New England was sure that, should the tax on molasses be too high, thedistilleries would be shut up, and a great New England industrydestroyed. Nor would the injury stop there. The fisheries, as well asthe distilleries, would be ruined. For three fifths of the fish put upfor the West Indies could find no market anywhere else; and a marketexisted there only because molasses was taken in exchange. A prohibitoryduty on that article, or a duty that should seriously interfere with itsimportation, would wellnigh destroy the fisheries. What then wouldbecome of the nursery of American seamen? With no seamen there would beno shipbuilding. What sadder picture than this of a New England withoutrum, without codfish, without seamen, and without ships! One can easilyconceive that even in that restrained and dignified First Congress therewas no want of serious and alarmed expostulation, and even somethreatening talk from such men as the tranquil Goodhue, the thoughtfuland scholarly Ames, and the impulsive Gerry.Then the South, for her part, was alarmed lest, among other things, toohigh a tonnage duty should leave her tobacco, her rice and indigo,rotting in the fields and warehouses for want of ships to take them tomarket. She had no ships of her own and could have none, and she invitedthe ships of the rest of the world to come for her products and bring inreturn all she needed for her own consumption. The picture of thepossible ruin of New England was as nothing to that of the Southernplanter scanning the horizon with weary eyes in vain for the sight of asail, while behind him was a dangerous crowd of hungry blacks withnothing to do. That desolation seemed complete to the southernmostStates when it was also proposed to levy a tax of ten dollars upon everyslave imported. In short, the whole subject bristled with difficulties.The problem was nothing more nor less than how to tax everything, and atthe same time convince everybody that the scheme was for the generalgood, while nobody's special interests were sacrificed. The "infantindustries," to which Mr. Madison alluded, really received no specialconsideration in the final adjustment, and they were too feeble theneven to cry for nursing. They have grown stronger since, though they are"infants" still; and they should never cease to be grateful to him who,however unwittingly, gave them a name to live by for a hundred years.But the most remarkable part of the debate was that upon the propositionof Mr. Parker of Virginia to impose a duty upon the importation ofslaves. Could the progress of events have been foreseen, that proposalmight have been regarded as meant to protect an "infant industry" of thenorthernmost slave States. But the wildest imagination then could notconceive of the domestic slave trade of a few years later, when a chiefsource of the prosperity of Virginia would be her perennial crop ofyoung men and women to be shipped for New Orleans and a market. But Mr.Parker had no ulterior motive when he avowed his regret that theConstitution had failed to prohibit the importation of slaves fromAfrica, and hoped that the duty he proposed would prevent, in somedegree, a traffic which he pronounced "irrational and inhuman." It wouldhave been difficult to have found a Virginian of that day who would nothave taken down his shotgun on hearing that there were miscreantsprowling about his kitchen doors in the hope of buying up the strongestyoung people of his household for export to the Southwest.Judging from the imperfect report of the debate upon the subject, itwould seem that the bargain relative to the slave trade, made in theConstitutional Convention of two years before between New England andthe two southernmost States, might still hold good. Or there may havebeen a new bargain; or, perhaps, both sides trusted to a tacitrecognition of the eternal fitness of things, and made common causewhere legislation threatened at the same time the distillery and theslave-ship.[11] At any rate, the extreme Southerners expressed surpriseat the audacity which would disturb a compromise of the Constitution;the extreme Northerners deprecated it as quite uncalled for in anyconsideration of the subject of revenue. The principle of Mr. Parker'smotion, Mr. Sherman of Connecticut thought, was to correct a moral evil;the principle of the bill before the House was to raise a revenue. Atsome other time he would be willing to consider the question of taxingthe importation of negroes on the ground of humanity and policy; but itwas a sufficient reason with him for not admitting it as an object ofrevenue that the burden would fall upon two States only. Fisher Ames ofMassachusetts could only take counsel of his conscience. From his soul,he said, he detested slavery; and--forgetting, apparently, that thistax was provided for by the Constitution--he doubted whether imposing it"would not have the appearance of authorizing the practice" of tradingin slaves. This was his reason for wishing to postpone the subject. ButMr. Livermore of New Hampshire was more ingenious still. If the importednegroes were goods, wares, or merchandise, they would come within thetitle of the bill, and be taxed under the general rule of five percentum, which would be about the same rate as ten dollars a head; but ifthey were not goods, wares, or merchandise, then such importation couldnot properly be included in the consideration of the question of arevenue from duties on such articles of trade.Mr. Madison came to the help of his colleague, and brushed aside thesophistries of the New England allies of the slave traders. If therewere anything wanting in the title of the bill to cover this particularduty, it was easy to add it. If the question was not one of taxationbecause it was one of humanity, it would be quite as difficult to dealwith it under any other bill for levying a duty as under this. If thetax seemed unjust because it bore heavily upon a single class, thatwould be a good reason for remitting many taxes which there was nohesitation in imposing. If ten dollars seemed a heavy duty, a littlecalculation would show that it was only about the proposed _ad valorem_duty of five per centum on most other importations. "It is to behoped," he added, "that by expressing a national disapprobation of thistrade we may destroy it, and save ourselves from reproaches, and ourposterity the imbecility ever attendant on a country filled withslaves." "If there is any one point," he continued, "in which it isclearly the policy of this nation, so far as we constitutionally can, tovary the practice obtaining under some of the state governments, it isthis.... It is as much the interest of Georgia and South Carolina as ofany in the Union. Every addition they receive to their number of slavestends to weaken and render them less capable of self-defense.... It is anecessary duty of the general government to protect every part of theempire against danger, as well internal as external. Everything,therefore, which tends to increase this danger, though it may be a localaffair, yet, if it involves national expense or safety, becomes ofconcern to every part of the Union, and is a proper subject for theconsideration of those charged with the general administration of thegovernment." No Northern man, except Elbridge Gerry of Massachusetts,supported this measure; and none from the Southern States, except threeof the Virginia members, with Madison leading. As the foreign slavetrade was protected in the Constitution for twenty years by a bargainbetween the two southernmost States and New England, so now the sameinfluence staved off the imposition of the tax which was a part of theconsideration to be given for that constitutional protection of thetrade. It is not a creditable fact; but it is, nevertheless, a fact anda representative one in the history of the United States. And it is toMadison's great honor that he had neither part nor lot in it.After six weeks of earnest debate, an amicable and satisfactoryagreement was made to impose a moderate duty upon pretty much everythingimported, except slaves from Africa. It was literally a tariff forrevenue; but it was a settlement that settled nothing definitely, exceptthat the provision of the Constitution for a tax of ten dollars onimported slaves should be a dead letter. Thenceforth the policy of freetrade was established, so far as African slaves were concerned, till thetraffic was supposed to cease by constitutional limitation and Act ofCongress in 1808.[12]The determination to protect the commercial interests of the country,beyond the point of mere revenue, was more manifest in fixing the rateof duty upon tonnage than in duties upon importations. It was generallyagreed, after much debate, that American commerce had better be inAmerican hands, and a difference of twenty cents a ton was made betweenthe tax upon domestic and that upon foreign ships, as a measure ofprotection to American shipping. Mr. Madison proposed to make it stilllarger, but the House would only agree to increase it to forty cents onships belonging to powers with which the United States had no treaties.The Senate, however, refused to admit this distinction, and insistedthat all foreign ships should be subject to the same tonnage dutywithout regard to existing treaties. The House assented, lest the billshould be lost altogether. This proposed differential duty on foreignvessels was as clearly aimed at Great Britain as if that power had beennamed in the bill. Nor, indeed, was there any attempt at concealment;for it was openly avowed that America had no formidable rival except theEnglish, who already largely controlled the commerce of the UnitedStates. In the debates and in the final decision of the question isshown clearly enough the difference of opinion and of feeling, whichsoon made the dividing line between the two great parties of the firstquarter of a century under the Constitution. Nobody then foresaw howbitter that difference of party was to be, nor what disastrousconsequences would follow it.Mr. Madison was among the most zealous of those who insisted upon adiscrimination against Great Britain. He thought it should be made forthe dignity no less than for the interest of the United States. He hadno fear, he said, "of entering into a commercial warfare with thatnation." England, he believed, could do this country no harm by anypeaceful reprisals she could devise. She supplied the United States withno article either of necessity or of luxury that the people of theUnited States could not manufacture for themselves. He called those"Anglicists" who did not agree with him, and who believed that it was inthe power of Great Britain to hinder or to help immensely the prosperityof the United States. It was not of so much moment what America boughtof England as it was that England should consent to free trade with hercolonies; and on every account it was wiser to conciliate than to defyGreat Britain; wiser to induce her to enter into a friendly commercialalliance than to provoke her to retaliate upon the feeble commerce ofthis country, upon which she had so strong a grip. Madison had shownhimself, before this time, half credulous of the charges of a leaningtoward England, and toward monarchy, made by those who wanted a congressof petty states against those who wanted a strong national government.If, however, there were Anglicism on one side, so there was quite asmuch Gallicism, if not a good deal more, on the other. In writing toJefferson of the probability that the Senate would make nodiscrimination in the tonnage duties, he said that in that case "GreatBritain will be quieted in the enjoyment of our trade as she may pleaseto regulate it, and France discouraged from her efforts at a competitionwhich it is not less our interest than hers to promote." Whatever may bethought of this first concession of the new government to England, it isquite as much the coming party leader as the statesman who speaks here.It may not be doubted that he sincerely thought it to be, as he said,"impolitic, in every view that can be taken of the subject, to put GreatBritain at once on the footing of the most favored nation." But therelation of American interests to English interests was evidentlyalready associated in his mind with the relations of France and England,so soon to be the absorbing question in American politics.The impost act was followed by others hardly less important in puttingthe new Constitution into operation under its first Congress. Thedirection of business seems, by common consent, to have been intrustedto Mr. Madison among the many able men of that body; doubtless becauseof his thorough familiarity with the Constitution, and of hismethodical ways. He was sure to bring things forward in their due order,to provide judiciously for the more immediate needs. The impost billsecured the means to work with; the next necessity was to organize themachinery to do the work. Resolutions to create the executivedepartments of Foreign Affairs, of the Treasury, and of War were offeredby Mr. Madison. These were required in general terms by theConstitution, with a single officer at the head of each, to be appointedby the President "by and with the advice and consent of the Senate." Themanner of the appointment of subordinate officers was provided for bythe Constitution, but the manner of their removal from office was not.Was the tenure of office to be good behavior? Were the incumbentsremovable, with or without cause? If the power of removal existed, didit vest in the power that appointed, that is, in the President andSenate conjointly, or in the President alone?As the Constitution was silent, the question had to be settled on itsown merits. With all the arguments that could be urged, either on oneside or the other, we are familiar enough in our time, coming up as thequestion so often does in changes in state constitutions and municipalcharters, and in the discussion of the necessity for civil servicereform. There is this essential difference, however, between now andthen: we know the mischiefs that come from the power of officialremoval, which were then only dimly apprehended. The power of removalfrom office belonged, Mr. Madison believed, rightfully to the chiefmagistrate, and, if by some unhappy chance the wrong man should find hisway to that position and abuse the power intrusted to him, "the wantonremoval of meritorious officers would," he said, "subject the Presidentto impeachment and removal from his own high trust."Lofty political principles like these may still be found in theplatforms of modern political parties,--   "The souls of them fumed-forth, the hearts of them torn-out."But Mr. Madison believed, at least, that he believed in them. There isin politics as in religion an accepted doctrine of justification byfaith; and this, perhaps, sustained him when, twelve years later, asJefferson's secretary of state, he learned from his chief that, as"Federalists seldom died and never resigned," party necessities mustfind a way of supplementing the law of nature. Jefferson was a littletimid in applying the remedy, but Madison lived long enough to seeJackson boldly remove, in the course of his administration, about twothousand office-holders, whose places he wanted as rewards for his ownpolitical followers. From that time to this, there has not been aPresident who might not, if Madison's doctrine was sound, have beenimpeached for a "wanton" abuse of power.Though the Constitution had been adopted by the States, it was notwithout objections by some of them. To meet these objections Mr. Madisonproposed twelve amendments declaratory of certain fundamental popularrights, which, it was thought by many persons, were not sufficientlyguarded by the original articles. This, also, was left to him to do, nodoubt because of his thorough knowledge of the Constitution and of thepoints wherein it was still imperfect, as well as those wherein it hadbetter not be meddled with. The amendments, as finally agreed to afterlong debate, were essentially those which he proposed, and in due timeten of them were ratified by the States. The two that were not acceptedreferred only to the number of representatives in the House, and to thepay of members of Congress.It was hoped that the selection of a place for the permanent seat ofgovernment would be made by this Congress. There was much talk of thecentres of wealth, of territory, and of population then, and of wheresuch centres might be in the future. But the question was really asectional one. The Northern members were accused of having made abargain out of doors with the members of the Middle States. The bargain,however, was only this: that, inasmuch as it was hopeless that theactual centre should be chosen as the site for a capital city, a placeas near as possible to it should be insisted upon. The South, on theother hand, determined that the seat of government should be within theboundaries of the Southern States. That was a foregone conclusion withthem, that needed no bargain. The nearest navigable river to the centreof population was the Delaware; but the jealousy of New York stood inthe way of any selection that favored Philadelphia. The Susquehanna wasproposed. It empties into Chesapeake Bay. North of it was, as Mr.Sherman showed, a population of 1,400,000; and south of it, 1,200,000.The South wanted the capital on the Potomac, not because it was thecentre of population then, but because it might be at some future time,from the growth of the West. On the other hand, it was insisted that thepopulation south of the Potomac was then only 960,000, while north of itthere were 1,680,000 people, and that it was no more accessible from theWest than the Susquehanna was. To many members, moreover, this talk ofthe great future of the West seemed hardly worthy of consideration. Itwas "an unmeasurable wilderness," and "when it would be settled was pastcalculation," Fisher Ames said. "It was," he added, "perfectly romanticto make this decision depend upon that circumstance. Probably it will benear a century before these people will be considerable." He was nearerright when he said in the same speech "that trade and manufactures willaccumulate people in the Eastern States in proportion of five to three,compared with the Southern. The disproportion will, doubtless, continueto be much greater than I have calculated. It is actually greater atpresent, for the climate and negro slavery are acknowledged to beunfavorable to population, so that husbandry as well as commerce andmanufactures will give more people in the Eastern than in the SouthernStates." It was, however, finally resolved by the House "that thepermanent seat of the government of the United States ought to be atsome convenient place on the banks of the river Susquehanna in the Stateof Pennsylvania;" and a bill accordingly was sent to the Senate.Had the Senate agreed to this bill, there are some luminous pages ofAmerican history that would never have been written; for the progress ofevents would have taken quite another direction had the influencessurrounding the national capital for the first half of this century beenNorthern instead of Southern. But the Senate did not agree. For "theconvenient place on the banks of the Susquehanna" it substituted tenmiles square on the river Delaware, beginning one mile from Philadelphiaand including the village of Germantown. To this amendment the Houseagreed, and there, but for Madison, the matter would have ended. He hadlabored earnestly for the site on the Potomac; but failing in that, hehoped to postpone the question till the next session of Congress, whenthe representatives from North Carolina would be present. He moved aproviso that the laws of Pennsylvania should remain in force within thedistrict ceded by the State till Congress should otherwise provide bylaw. It seems to have been accepted without consideration, a singlemember only saying that he saw no necessity for it. At any rate, whetherthat was Mr. Madison's motive or not, time was gained, for it compelledthe return of the bill to the Senate. This was on September 28, and thenext day the session was closed by adjournment till the followingJanuary.When in that next session the bill came back from the Senate to theHouse, a member from South Carolina said, in the course of debate, that"a Quaker State was a bad neighborhood for the South Carolinians." TheSenate had also come to that conclusion, for the bill now proposed thatthe capital should be at Philadelphia for ten years only, and shouldthen be removed to the banks of the Potomac. It was done, Madison wroteto Monroe, by a single vote, for two Southern senators voted against it.But the two senators from North Carolina were now present, and themajority of one was made sure of somehow.So much was gained by gaining time, and Madison thought the passage ofthe bill through the House was possible, "but attended with greatdifficulties." Did he know how these difficulties were to be overcome?"If the Potomac succeeds," he adds, "it will have resulted from afortuitous coincidence of circumstances which might never happen again."What the "fortuitous coincidence" was he does not explain; but the termwas a felicitous euphuism to cover up what in the blunter politicallanguage of our time is called "log-rolling."The reader of this series of biographies is already familiar withHamilton's skillful barter of votes for the Potomac site of the capitalin exchange for votes in favor of his scheme for the assumption of thestate debts. Madison seems not to have been ignorant of the progress ofthat bargain, with which Jefferson was afterward so anxious to provethat he had nothing to do. Madison earnestly opposed the assumption ofthe state debts from first to last; but, when he saw that the measurewas sure to pass the House, he wrote to Monroe: "I cannot deny that thecrisis demands a spirit of accommodation to a certain extent. If themeasure should be adopted, I shall wish it to be considered as anunavoidable evil, and _possibly_ not the worst side of the dilemma." Inother words, he was willing to assent silently to what he believed to bea great injustice to several of the States, provided that the bargainshould be a gain to his own State. If Hamilton and Jefferson weresinners in this business, Madison will hardly pass for a saint.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 11: Eleven years afterward, when the question of prohibitingthe carrying on the slave trade from American ports came up, one JohnBrown of Rhode Island said in Congress, "Our distilleries andmanufactories were all lying idle for want of an extended commerce. Hehad been well informed that on those coasts [African] New England rumwas much preferred to the best Jamaica spirits, and would fetch a betterprice. Why should it not be sent there, and a profitable return be made?Why should a heavy fine and imprisonment [of slave traders] be made thepenalty for carrying on a trade so advantageous?" Sixty years laterstill, there was another Brown in Providence, Rhode Island, who was amember of the Committee of the Kansas Aid Society of New England. He wasabout to withdraw from it for want of time to attend to itsduties,--had, indeed, actually sent in his resignation,--when news cameof the doings of another John Brown at Harper's Ferry. The resignationwas instantly recalled, with the remark that it was not a time forBrowns to seem to be backward on the question of slavery. Such is theirony of coincidence in names.][Footnote 12: The subsequent legislation on this subject is a curiousexemplification of the ingenuity with which any law obnoxious to theowners of slaves was got rid of, when it was clear that it could not bedefeated by force of numbers. In 1806 a final attempt was made to imposethe duty of ten dollars upon slaves imported, and a resolution passed infavor of it. This was referred to a committee, with instructions tobring in a bill. A bill was reported and pushed so far as a thirdreading, when it was recommitted, which put it off for a year. When itnext appeared it was a bill for the prohibition of the importation ofslaves, in accordance with the constitutional provision that the trafficshould cease in 1808. The new question, after some debate, in whichthere was no allusion to the tax, was postponed for furtherconsideration. But it never again came before the House. A month later,February 13, 1807, a bill from the Senate, providing that the foreignslave trade should cease on the first day of the following January, wasreceived and immediately concurred in, and that seems to have beensilently accepted as disposing of the whole subject. No tax was everpaid; but the importation of slaves, notwithstanding the law to put anend to importation in 1808, continued at the rate, it was estimated, ofabout fifteen thousand a year. Probably it never ceased altogether tillthe beginning of the rebellion of 1860.]CHAPTER XINATIONAL FINANCES--SLAVERYHamilton's famous report to the First Congress, as secretary of thetreasury, was made at the second session in January, 1790. Near theclose of the previous session a petition asking for some settlement ofthe public debt was received and referred to a committee of whichMadison was chairman. The committee reported in favor of the petition,and the House accordingly called upon the secretary to prepare a plan"for the support of the public credit."So far as Hamilton's funding scheme provided for that portion of thedebt due to foreigners, it was accepted without demur. There could be nodoubt that there the ostensible creditor was the real creditor, whoshould be paid in full. The report assumed that this was equally true ofthe domestic debt. A citizen holding a certificate of the indebtednessof the government, no matter how he came by it, nor at what price, wasentitled to payment at its face value. But here the question was raised,Was this ostensible creditor the sole creditor? Was he, whosenecessities had compelled him to part with the government's note of handat a large discount when full payment was impossible, to receivenothing now when at last government was able to pay in full? Was itequity to let all the loss fall upon the original creditor, and all thegain go to him who had lost nothing originally, and had only assumed atsmall cost the risk of a profitable speculation? Moreover it wascharged, and not denied, that in some of these speculations there hadbeen no risk whatever; and that, so soon as the tenor of the report wasknown, fast-sailing vessels were dispatched from New York to theCarolinas and Georgia to buy up public securities held by personsignorant of their recent rapid rise in value. As hitherto they had beenworth only about fifteen cents on the dollar; as upon the publication ofthe secretary's report they had risen to fifty cents on the dollar; andas, if the secretary's advice should be taken, they would rise to ahundred cents on the dollar,--it would be securing what in the slang ofthe modern stock exchange is called "a good thing" to send agents intothe rural districts in advance of the news to buy up government paper."My soul rises indignant," exclaimed a member, "at the avaricious andmoral turpitude which so vile a conduct displays." Nor on that point didanybody venture then to disagree with him openly.But, besides the question as to who were in reality the publiccreditors, a doubt was also raised whether the debt ought to be paid infull to anybody. Every dollar of the foreign debt was for an actualdollar borrowed. But the domestic debt was not incurred to any largeamount for money borrowed, but in payment for services, or forprovisions and goods purchased, for which double, or more than double,prices had been exacted by those who exchanged them for governmentpaper. If the exigencies of war had compelled the government to promiseto pay for fifty bushels of wheat the price of a hundred bushels, thecreditor, now that the government was in a condition to redeem itspromise, was not entitled in equity to receive more than the actualvalue of the fifty bushels at the time of the purchase. Moreover, it wascontended, there was no injustice in such a settlement of the debt, forthe war had been carried on and brought to a successful end, for thebenefit of the creditor as well as of everybody else. The argument wasanalogous in a measure to that used by a certain class of politicians inour time, who maintained that the bonds of the United States, bought ata discount for "greenbacks" during the late rebellion, should not beredeemed in gold when the war was over.The answer to all this was obvious. The nation must first be just bypaying its debts to those who could present the evidence that they wereits creditors. If, when that was done, it could afford to be generous,it might, if so disposed, reimburse those who had lost by parting withthe certificates of debt at a discount. The government could not inhonor go behind its own contracts. The Constitution provided that "alldebts and engagements, entered into before the adoption of thisConstitution, shall be as valid against the United States under thisConstitution as under the Confederation." Here was a debt which theConfederation had contracted, and the federal government had no moreright "to impair the obligation of contracts" for its own benefit thanthe separate States had; and that they were expressly forbidden by theConstitution to do.Madison listened quietly day after day to the long and earnest debatesupon the subject, and then advanced an entirely new proposition. Heagreed with one party in maintaining the inviolability of contracts. TheConfederacy had incurred a debt to its own citizens which the newgovernment had agreed to assume. But he also agreed with the other partythat there was a question as to whom that debt was due. Were those whonow held the certificates entitled to the payment of their face value,dollar for dollar, although the cost to them was only somewhere fromfifteen to fifty cents on the dollar? It was true that the originalcontract was transferable, and these present creditors held the evidenceof the transfer. But did that transfer entitle the holder to the fullvalue without regard to the price paid for it? Was there not in equity areserved right in the original holder, who, having given a fullequivalent for the debt, had only parted with the evidence of it, underthe compulsion of his own poverty, and the inability of the governmentat that time to meet its obligations? Was not this specially true inthe case of the soldiers of the late war, to whose devotion andsacrifices the nation owed its existence?Mr. Madison thought that an affirmative reply to the last two querieswould present the true view of the case, and he proposed, therefore, topay both classes of creditors,--those who now held the evidence ofindebtedness, acquired by purchase at no matter what price; and thosewho had parted with that evidence without receiving the amount which thegovernment had promised to pay for services rendered. It was not,however, to be expected that the entire debt should be paid in full toboth classes. That was beyond the ability of the government. But itwould be an equitable settlement, he contended, to pay the presentholders the highest price the certificates had ever reached, and toaward the remainder to those who were the original creditors.This proposition received only thirteen votes out of forty-nine. Many ofthose opposed to it were quite ready to grant that it was hard upon theveterans of the war that they, who had received so little and who hadborne so much, should not now be recognized as creditors when at lastthe government was able to pay its debts. But the House could notindulge in sentimental legislation. That would be to launch the ship ofstate upon another sea of bankruptcy. There were in the hands of thepeople tens of millions of paper money not worth at the current rate acent on the dollar. If everybody who had lost was to be paid, the pointwould soon be reached where nobody would be paid at all. A limit must befixed somewhere; let it be at these certificates of debt which were theevidence of a contract made between the government and its creditors.These could be paid, and they should be paid, to those who were inlawful possession of them. The law, if not the equity, of the case wasclearly against Madison. That the government should be absolutely justto everybody who had ever trusted to it, and lost by it, was impossible.It was a bankrupt compelled to name its preferred creditors, and itnamed those whom it was in honor and law bound to take care of, and overwhose claims there was, on the whole, the least shadow of doubt. Thatthe loss should remain chiefly with the soldiers of the Revolution, andthe gain fall chiefly to those who were shrewd enough, or had the meansto speculate in the public funds, was a lamentable fact; but todiscriminate between them was not within the right of the government.That he would have had it discriminate was creditable to Madison'sheart; it was rather less creditable to his head.Of course, underneath all this debate there lay other considerationsthan those merely of debtor and creditor, of moral and legal obligation,of pity for the soldiers, and of strict regard for the letter of acontract. Mr. Hamilton and his friends, it was said, were anxious toestablish the public credit, not so much because they wished to keepfaith with creditors as because they wished to strengthen the governmentand build up their own party. The reply to these accusations was, thatthe other side, under pretense of consideration for the soldiers andothers on whom the burden of the war had borne most heavily, concealedhostility to the Constitution and a consolidated government. These werenot reflections to be spoken of in debate, but they were not the lesscherished, and gave to it piquancy and spirit. There was truth on bothsides without doubt.Though defeated in this measure, Madison was not less determined in hisopposition to the assumption of the debts of the States. Of these debtssome States had discharged more than others; and he complained, notwithout reason, of the injustice of compelling those which had bornetheir own burdens unaided to share in the obligations which others hadneglected. He was unfortunate, however, in assuming a superiority forVirginia over some of the Eastern States, and especially overMassachusetts, in services rendered in the struggle for independence.The comparison provoked a call for official inquiry; and that provedthat Massachusetts alone had sent more men into the field during the warthan all the Southern States together. It was not much to be wonderedat, when this fact was considered, that the debt of Massachusetts shouldbe larger than that of Virginia by $800,000. The difference betweenVirginia and South Carolina was the same, the truth being that the warhad cost Massachusetts more money to pay her soldiers for the generalservice, and South Carolina more to repel the enemy upon her own soil,than it had cost Virginia for either purpose. Massachusetts and SouthCarolina were again found acting together, simply because each of themhad a debt--$4,000,000--larger than that of any other State. The totaldebt of all the States was about $21,000,000; and as that of NorthCarolina, Pennsylvania, or Connecticut, when added to the $8,000,000 ofMassachusetts and South Carolina, amounted to half, or more, of thewhole sum, there was no difficulty in forming a strong combination infavor of assumption. No combination, however, was strong enough to carrythe measure on its own merits, notwithstanding its advocates attemptedto defeat the funding of the domestic debt of the Federal Union unlessthe debts of the several States were assumed at the same time.The domestic debt, however, was at length provided for, and theassumption of the debts of the States was rejected till that bargain,referred to in the preceding chapter, which gave to the Southern Statesthe permanent seat of government, was concluded. It would not have beendifficult, probably, to defeat that piece of political jobbery by apublic exposure of its terms. Why Madison did not resort to it, if, asseems certain, he knew that such a bargain had been privately made, canonly be conjectured. Perhaps he saw that Hamilton, who was applauded byhis friends and denounced by his enemies for his clever management, had,after all, only made a temporary gain; and that Jefferson, whose defensewas that Hamilton had taken advantage of his ignorance and innocence,would not, had he not been short-sighted, have made any defense at all.For the assumption of the state debts by the general government was onlya distribution of a single local burden; and this was a small price forVirginia and the other Southern States to pay for the permanentpossession of the federal capital.While these questions were pending, another was thrown into the Housewhich was not disposed of for nearly two months. The debates upon it,Madison said in one of his letters, "were shamefully indecent," thoughhe thought the introduction of the subject into Congress injudicious.The Yearly Meeting of Friends in New York and in Pennsylvania sent amemorial against the continued toleration of the slave trade; and thiswas followed the next day by a petition from the Pennsylvania Societyfor the Promotion of the Abolition of Slavery, signed by BenjaminFranklin as president, asking for a more radical measure.     "They earnestly entreat," they said, "your serious attention to the     subject of slavery; that you will be pleased to countenance the     restoration of liberty to these unhappy men, who alone in this land     of freedom are degraded into perpetual bondage, and who, amidst     the general joy of surrounding freemen, are groaning in servile     subjection; that you will devise means for removing this     inconsistency from the character of the American people; that you     will promote mercy and justice towards this distressed race; and     that you will step to the very verge of the power vested in you for     discouraging every species of traffic in the persons of our     fellow-men."The words were probably Franklin's own, and, as he died a few weeksafter they were written, they may be considered as his dying words tohis countrymen,--counsel wise and merciful as his always was.A memorable debate followed the presentation of these memorials. Even inthe imperfect report of it that has come down to us, the "shamefulindecency" of which Madison speaks is visible enough. Franklin,venerable in years, exalted in character, and eminent above almost allthe men of the time for services to his country, was sneered at forsenility and denounced as disregarding the obligations of theConstitution. But the wrath of the pro-slavery extremists was speciallyaroused against the Society of Friends, and was unrestrained by anyconsiderations of either decency or truth. In this respect the debatewas the precursor of every contest in Congress upon the subject that wasto follow for the coming seventy years. The Quakers were therepresentative abolitionists of that day, and the measure of bitter andangry denunciation that was meted out to them was the same measurewhich, heaped up and overflowing, was poured out upon those who, inlater times, took upon themselves the burden of the cause of the slave.The line of argument, the appeals to prejudice, the disregard of factsand the false conclusions, the misrepresentation of past history and themisapprehension of the future, the contempt of reason, of common sense,and common humanity, then laboriously and unscrupulously arrayed indefense of slavery, left nothing for the exercise of the ingenuity ofmodern orators. A single difference only between the earlier and thelater time is conspicuous; the "plantation manners," as they were calledfive and twenty years ago, which the Wises, the Brookses, theBarksdales, and the Priors of the modern South relied upon as potentweapons of defense and assault, were unknown in the earlier Congresses.Mr. Madison and some other members from the South, particularly thosefrom Virginia, opposed the majority of their colleagues, who wereunwilling that these memorials should be referred to a committee. "Thetrue policy of the Southern members," Madison wrote to a friend, "was tohave let the affair proceed with as little noise as possible, and tohave made use of the occasion to obtain, along with an assertion of thepowers of Congress, a recognition of the restraints imposed by theConstitution." This in effect was done in the end, but not till near twomonths had passed, within which time the more violent of the Southernmembers had ample opportunity to free their minds and exhaust thesubject. The more these people talked the worse it was, of course, fortheir cause. Had Madison's moderate advice been accepted then, and hadthat example been followed for the next sixty or seventy years, it isquite likely that the colored race would still be in bondage in at leastone half of the States. But there was never a more notable example ofmanifest destiny than the gradual but certain progress of the oppositionto slavery; for there never was a system, any attempt to defend whichshowed how utterly indefensible such a system must needs be. Everyargument advanced in its favor was so manifestly absurd, or so shockingto the ordinary sense of mankind, that the more it was discussed themore widespread and earnest became the opposition. Had the slaveholdersbeen wise, they would never have opened their mouths upon the subject.But, like the man possessed of the devil, they never ceased to cry, "Letme alone!" And the more they cried, the more there were who understoodwhere that cry came from.In one respect Mr. Madison declared that the memorial of the Friendsdemanded attention. If the American flag was used to protect foreignersin carrying on the slave trade in other countries, that was a propersubject for the consideration of Congress. "If this is the case," hesaid, "is there any person of humanity that would not wish to preventthem?"[13] But he recognized the limitations of the Constitution inrelation to the importation of slaves into the United States, and thewant of any authority in the letter of the Constitution, or of any wishon the part of Congress, to interfere with slavery in the States. Onthese points he would have a decisive declaration, without agitation,and with as little discussion as possible, and there would have droppedthe subject. It only needed, he evidently thought, that everybody, Northand South, should understand the Constitution to be a mutual agreementto let slavery altogether alone, when the bargain would be on both sidesfaithfully adhered to.This was all very well with the numerous persons who were quiteindifferent to the subject, or who thought it very unreasonable in theblacks not to be quite willing to remain slaves a few hundred yearslonger. But there were two other classes to reckon with, and Mr. Madisonwas not much inclined to be patient with either of them. To let thesubject alone was precisely what the hot-headed members from the Southwere incapable of doing then, as they proved to be incapable of doingfor the next seventy years. On the other hand, all the petitioners couldreally hope for was that there should be discussion. The galleries werecrowded at those earliest debates, as they continued to be crowded onall such occasions in subsequent years. Many went to learn what could besaid on behalf of slavery, who came away convinced that the least saidthe better. Agitation might disturb the harmony of the Union, which wasMadison's dread; it might lead to the death of an abolitionist, as itsometimes did in later times; but it was sure in the end to be the deathof slavery, though its short-sighted defenders could never understandwhy. They could never be made to see that its most dangerous foes werethe friends of its own household, who could not hold their tongues; thatfor their case all wisdom was epitomized in the vulgar caution "to lielow and keep dark;" that the exposure of the true character of slaverymust needs be its destruction, and that nothing so exposed it as anyattempt to defend it. Slavery was quite safe under the Constitution, asMr. Madison intimated, if its friends would only leave it there andclaim no other protection.Advocates are never wanting in any court who believe that the mosteffective line of defense is to abuse the plaintiff. The Quakers, it wassaid, "notwithstanding their outward pretenses," had no "more virtue orreligion than other people, nor perhaps so much." They had not madethe Constitution, nor risked their lives and fortunes by fighting fortheir country. Why should they "set themselves up in such a particularmanner against slavery"? Did they not know that the Bible not onlyallowed but commended it, "from Genesis to Revelation"? That the Saviourhad permitted it? That the Apostles, in spreading Christianity, hadnever preached against it? That it had been--the illustration was notaltogether a happy one--"no novel doctrine since the days of Cain"? Thecondition of these American slaves was said to be one of great happinessand comfort; yet almost in the same breath it was asserted that toexcite in their minds any hope of change would lead to the mostdisastrous consequences, and possibly to massacre. The memorialists werebidden to remember that, even if slavery "were an evil, it was one forwhich there was no remedy;" for that reason the North had acquiesced init; "a compromise was made on both sides,--we took each other, with ourmutual bad habits and respective evils, for better, for worse; theNorthern States adopted us with our slaves, and we adopted them withtheir Quakers." Without such a compromise there could have been noUnion, and any interference now with slavery by the government would endin a civil war. These people were meddling with what was none of theirbusiness, and exciting the slaves to insurrection. Yet how forbearingwere the people of the Southern States who, notwithstanding all this,"had not required the assistance of Congress to exterminate theQuakers!"This was not conciliatory. Those who had been disposed at the beginningto meet the petitions with a quiet reply that the subject was out of thejurisdiction of Congress were now provoked to give them a much warmerreception. They could not listen patiently to the abuse of the Quakers,and, though they might acquiesce in the toleration of slavery, they werenot inclined to have it crammed down their throats as a wise,beneficent, and consistent condition of society under a republicangovernment. Even Madison, who at first was most anxious that nothingshould be said or done to arouse agitation, while acknowledging that allcitizens might rightfully appeal to Congress for a redress of what theyconsidered grievances, was moved at last to say that the memorial of theFriends was "well worthy of consideration." While admitting that underthe Constitution the slave trade could not be prohibited for twentyyears, "yet," he declared, "there are a variety of ways by which it[Congress] could countenance the abolition, and regulations might bemade in relation to the introduction of [slavery] into the new States tobe formed out of the western territory."Gerry was still more emphatic in the assertion of the right ofinterference. He boldly asserted that "flagrant acts of cruelty" werecommitted in carrying on the African slave trade; and, while nobodyproposed to violate the Constitution, "that we have a right to regulatethis business is as clear as that we have any right whatever; nor hasthe contrary been shown by anybody who has spoken on the occasion." Nordid he stop there. He told the slaveholders that the value of theirslaves in money was only about ten million dollars, and that Congresshad the right to propose "to purchase the whole of them; and theirresources in the western territory might furnish them with the means."The Southern members would, perhaps, have been startled by such aproposition as this, had he not immediately added that "he did notintend to suggest a measure of this kind; he only instanced theseparticulars to show that Congress certainly had a right to intermeddlein the business." It is quite likely, had he pushed such a measure withhis well-known zeal and determination, that it would have been at leastreceived with a good deal of favor; and, as the admirers of Jeffersonare tenacious of his fame as the author of the original NorthwestOrdinance, so Gerry, had he seriously and earnestly urged the policy ofusing the proceeds of the sales of territorial lands to remunerate theowners of slaves for their liberation, would have left behind him a morefragrant memory than that which clings to him as a minister to France,and as the "Gerrymandering" governor of Massachusetts. The debate,however, came to an end at last with no other result than that whichwould have been reached at the beginning without debate, except,perhaps, that the vote in favor of the reports upon the memorials wassmaller than it might have been had there been no discussion.Within less than two years, however, Warner Mifflin of Delaware, aneminent member of the Society of Friends, who was one of the first, ifnot the first, of that society to manumit his own slaves, petitionedCongress to take some measure for general emancipation. The petition wasentered upon the journal; but on a subsequent day a North Carolinamember, Mr. Steele, said that, "after what had passed at New York onthis subject, he had hoped the House would have heard no more of it;"and he moved that the petition be returned to Mifflin and be expungedfrom the journal. Fisher Ames explained in a rather apologetic tone thathe had presented the petition at Mr. Mifflin's request, because themember from Delaware was absent, and because he believed in the right ofpetition, though "he considered it as totally inexpedient to interferewith the subject." The House agreed that the petition should bereturned, and Steele then withdrew the motion to expunge it from thejournal.In the next Congress, eighteen months afterward, the House took up thesubject of the slave trade, apparently of its own motion, and a bill waspassed prohibiting the carrying on of that traffic from the ports of theUnited States in foreign vessels. The question was as inexorable asdeath, and the difference in regard to it then was precisely what itwas in the final discussion of the next century which settled itforever. One set of men was given over to perdition if they dared somuch as talk; the other set talked all the more, and went to the veryverge of the Constitution in act all the more, because they were biddenneither to speak nor to move. Courage was not one of Madison's markedcharacteristics, but he never showed more of it than in his hostility toslavery.[Illustration: Fisher Ames]At the third session of the First Congress, which had adjourned from NewYork to Philadelphia, where it met in December, 1790, Madison led hisparty in opposition to the establishment of a national bank, whichHamilton had recommended; and again, as in the adjustment of thedomestic debt, he and his party were defeated. He compared theadvantages and the disadvantages of banks, and possibly he did notsatisfy himself, as he certainly did not the other side, that the weightof the argument was against their utility. At any rate, he fell backupon the Constitution as his strongest position. To incorporate a bankwas not, he maintained, among the powers conferred upon Congress. TheFederalists, who were beginning to recognize him as the leader of theopposition, were quite ready to accept that challenge. "Little doubtremains," said Fisher Ames in rising to reply, "with respect to theutility of banks." Assuming that to be settled,--whether he meant, ornot, that such was the conclusion to be drawn from Madison's argumenton that point,--he addressed himself to the constitutional question. Ifthe incorporation of a bank was forbidden by the Constitution, there wasan end of the matter. If it was not forbidden, but if Congress mayexercise powers not expressly bestowed upon it, and if by a bank some ofthe things which the federal government had to do could be best done, itwould be not only right but wise to establish such an agency. This wasthe burden of the argument of the Federalists, and Madison and hisfriends had no sufficient answer. The bill was at length passed by avote of thirty-nine to twenty.But it had still to pass the ordeal of the cabinet. The President wasnot disposed to rely upon his own judgment either one way or the other.He asked, therefore, for the written opinions of the secretaries of thetreasury and of state, Hamilton and Jefferson, and the attorney-general,Randolph. The same request was made to Madison, probably more becauseWashington held his ability and knowledge of constitutional law in highesteem than because of the prominent part he had taken in the debate.Hamilton's argument in favor of the bill was an answer to the papers ofthe three other gentlemen, and was accepted as conclusive by thePresident.FOOTNOTE:[Footnote 13: The most serious difficulty in the way of the finalsuppression of the African slave trade in the present century was, thatit could be carried on without molestation in American bottoms, underthe American flag. The ruling power in the United States, from 1787 to1860, was never willing that their own cruisers should meddle with theslavers, and resented as an insult to the flag the search, by thecruisers of other powers, of any vessel under the American flag, thoughit might be absolutely certain that she had come straight from the coastof Africa, and that her "between-decks" was crowded full of negroes tobe sold as slaves in Cuba.]CHAPTER XIIFEDERALISTS AND REPUBLICANSMadison was a Federalist until, unfortunately, he drifted into theopposition. He was swept away partly, perhaps, by the influence ofpersonal friends, particularly of Jefferson, and partly by the influenceof locality,--that "go-with-the-State" doctrine, which is a harmlesskind of patriotism when kept within proper limits, but dangerous in amixed government like ours when unrestrained. Had he been born in a freeState it seems more than probable that he would never have beenPresident; but it is quite possible that his place in the history of hiscountry would have been higher. The better part of his life was beforehe became a party leader. As his career is followed the presence of thestatesman grows gradually dimmer in the shadow of the successfulpolitician.In the course of the three sessions of the First Congress the line wasdistinctly drawn between the Federal and Republican (or Democratic)parties. The Federalists, it was evident, had succeeded in firmlyuniting thirteen separate States into one great nation, or into what, indue time, was sure to become a great nation. It was no longer a looseassemblage of thirteen independent bodies, revolving, indeed, around acentral power, but with a centrifugal motion that might at any time sendthem flying off into space, or destroy them by collisions at varioustangents. Those who opposed the Federalists, however, had no fear of atendency to tangents; the danger was, as they believed, of too muchcentripetal forces and that the circling planets might fall into thecentral sun and disappear altogether. Even if there were no flying offinto space, and no falling into the sun, they had no faith in this sortof political astronomy. They were unwilling to float in fixed orbitsobedient to a supreme law other than their own.There is no need to doubt the honesty of either party then, whatevercame to pass in later years. Nor, however, is there any more doubt nowwhich was the wiser. Before the end of the century the administration ofgovernment was wrested from the hands of those who had created theUnion; and within fifteen years more the Federal party, under that name,had disappeared. It would not be quite just to say that they wereopposed for no better reason than because they were in power. But it isquite true that the principles and the policy of the Federalistssurvived the party organization; and they not only survived, but, so faras the opposite party was ever of service to the country, it was whenthat party adopted the federal measures. It was in accordance with theearly principles of Federalism that the republic was defended and savedin the war of 1860-65; as it was the principles of the Democraticstate-rights party, administered by a slaveholding oligarchy, that madethat war inevitable.Hamilton said, in the well-known Carrington letter in the spring of1792, that he was thoroughly convinced by Madison's course in the lateCongress that he, "co?perating with Mr. Jefferson, is at the head of afaction decidedly hostile to me and my administration, and actuated byviews, in my judgment, subversive of the principles of good government,and dangerous to the union, peace, and happiness of the country." Atfirst he was disposed to believe, because of his "previous impressionsof the fairness of Mr. Madison's character," that there was nothingpersonal or factious in this hostility. But he soon changed his mind. Upto the time of the meeting of the First Congress there had always beenperfect accord between them, and Hamilton accepted his seat in thecabinet "under the full persuasion," he said, "that from similarity ofthinking, conspiring with personal good-will, I should have the firmsupport of Mr. Madison in the general course of my administration." Butwhen he found in Madison his most determined opponent, either open orcovert, in the most important measures he urged upon Congress,--thesettlement of the domestic debt, the assumption of the debts of theStates, and the establishment of a national bank,--he was compelled toseek for other than public motives for this opposition. "It had been,"he declared, "more uniform and persevering than I have been able toresolve into a sincere difference of opinion. I cannot persuade myselfthat Mr. Madison and I, whose politics had formerly so much the samepoint of departure, should now diverge so widely in our opinions of themeasures which are proper to be pursued."In the letter from which these extracts are made Jefferson and Madisonare painted as almost equally black, though the color was laid thethicker on Jefferson, if there was any difference. Hamilton seemed tothink that, if Jefferson was the more malicious, Madison was the moreartful. He is accused of an attempt to get the better of the secretaryof the treasury by a trick which was dishonorable in itself, and at thesame time an abuse of the confidence reposed in him by Washington.Before sending in his message at the opening of the Second Congress thePresident submitted it to Madison, who, Hamilton declares, so alteredit, by transposing a passage and by the addition of a few words, thatthe President was made to seem, unconsciously to himself, to approve ofJefferson's proposal to establish the same unit for coins as forweights. This would have been to disapprove of the proposal of thesecretary of the treasury that the dollar should remain the unit ofcoinage. The statement rests on Hamilton's assertion; and as he hadforgotten the words which made the change he complained of, and as themessage was restored to its original form by the President when itspossible interpretation was pointed out to him, it is impossible now tojudge whether Madison may not have been quite innocent of the intentionimputed to him. It is plain enough, however, that Hamilton was sore anddisappointed at Madison's conduct, and that he was quick to seize uponany incident that justified him in saying, "The opinion I onceentertained of the candor and simplicity and fairness of Mr. Madison'scharacter has, I acknowledge, given way to a decided opinion that it isone of a peculiarly artificial and complicated kind." To justify thisopinion, and as an evidence of how bitter Madison's political andpersonal enmity toward him had become, he refers in the same letter toMadison's relation to Freneau and his paper, "The National Gazette." "Asthe coadjutor of Jefferson," he wrote, "in the establishment of thispaper, I include Mr. Madison in the consequences imputable to it."The story of Freneau need not be repeated here at length, having beenalready told in another volume of this series of biographies. If therewere anything in that affair, however, for which Jefferson could befairly called to account, Madison may be held as not less responsible.When the charge was made that he had a sinister motive in procuring forFreneau a clerkship in the State Department, and in aiding him toestablish a newspaper, Madison frankly related the facts in a letter toEdmund Randolph. He had nothing to deny except to repel with someindignation the charge that he had helped to establish the journal inorder that it might "sap the Constitution," or that there was theslightest expectation or intention on his part of any relation betweenthe State Department and the newspaper. Freneau was one of his collegefriends, a deserving man, to whom he was attached, and whom he was gladto help. There was nothing improper in commending one well qualified todischarge its duties for the post of translator in a government office;and as those duties, for which the yearly salary was only two hundredand fifty dollars, were light, there was no good reason why the clerkshould not find other employment for leisure hours.If Mr. Madison, having said this, had stopped there, his critics wouldhave been silenced. But when he added that he advised his friend withanother motive besides that of helping him to start a newspaper, then,as the expressive modern phrase is, he "gave himself away." There is afeeling, common even in those early and innocent days when such thingswere rare, that the editor, whose daily bread, whether it be cake orcrust, comes from the bounty of the man in office or other place ofpower,--that an editor so fed, and perhaps fattened, is only a servantbought at a price. Madison said that to help a needy man whom he held inhigh esteem was his "primary and governing motive." But he adds: "That,as a consequential one, I entertained hopes that a free paper ... wouldbe an antidote to the doctrines and discourses circulated in favor ofmonarchy and aristocracy; would be an acceptable vehicle of publicinformation in many places not sufficiently supplied with it,--this alsois a certain truth." What was this but an acknowledgment of theessential truth of the charge brought against Jefferson and himself? Notthat he might not devoutly hope for an antidote to the poisonousdoctrines of monarchy and aristocracy, though in very truth theexistence of any such poison was only one of the maggots which, bred inthe muck of party strife, had found a lodgment in his brain; not that itwas not a commendable public spirit to wish for a good newspaper tocirculate where it was most needed; not that it was not a most excellentthing in him to hold out a helping hand to the friend who had been lessfortunate than himself,--but that, in helping his friend to a clerkshipin a department of the government, his motive was in part that thepossession of a public office would enable the man to establish a partyorgan. That was precisely the point of the charge which he seems to havefailed to apprehend,--that public patronage was used at his suggestionto further party ends.Freneau had intended to start a newspaper somewhere in New Jersey.Whether or not that known intention suggested that the project could bebetter carried out in Philadelphia, and a clerkship in the StateDepartment would be an aid to it, the change of plan was adopted and theclerkship bestowed upon him. The paper--the first number of whichappeared five days after his appointment--was, as it was known that itwould be, an earnest defender of Jefferson and his friends, and aformidable opponent of Hamilton and his party. The logical conclusionwas that the man, being put in place for a purpose, was diligent inusing the opportunities the place afforded him to fulfill the hopes ofthose to whom he was indebted. Madison and Jefferson both denied, withmuch heat and indignation, that they had anything to do with theeditorial conduct of the paper. No doubt they spoke the truth. They hadto draw the line somewhere; they drew it there; and an exceedingly sharpand fine line it was. For it is plain that Freneau knew very well whathe was about and what was expected of him, and his powerful friends knewvery well that he knew it. They could feel in him the most implicitconfidence as an untamed and untamable democrat, and one, perhaps, whosegratitude would be kept alive by the remembrance of poverty and the hopeof future favors. There was clearly no need of a board of directors forthe editorial supervision of "The National Gazette," and it was quitesafe to deny that any existed. The fact, nevertheless, remained that aseat had been given the editor at Mr. Jefferson's elbow.Three months before Madison heard that his relation to Freneau wasbringing him under public censure, he showed an evident interest in the"Gazette" hardly consistent with his subsequent avowal of having nothingto do with its management. In a letter to Jefferson he refers to thepostage on newspapers established by the bill for the regulation ofpost-offices, and fears that it will prove a grievance in the loss ofsubscribers. He suggests that a notice be given that the papers "willnot be put into the mail, but _sent as heretofore_," meaning by that,probably, that they would be sent under the franks of members ofCongress, or by any other chance that might offer. "Will you," he adds,"hint this to Freneau? His subscribers in this quarter seem pretty wellsatisfied with the degree of regularity and safety with which they getthe papers, and highly pleased with the paper itself." This was carefuldry-nursing for the bantling which had been provided with so comfortablea cradle in the State Department.The political casuist of our time may wonder at the importance whichattached to this Freneau affair. We are taught that "there were giantsin those days," but we may also remember that in the modern science of"practical politics" they were as babes and sucklings. Madison wasmaking good his place as a leader of the opposition hardly second toJefferson himself. As with Hamilton, so with the Federalists generally,he fell more even than Jefferson fell in their esteem. He fell more,because he had farther to fall. No man had been more earnest than hefor a consolidated government; no one had shown more activity to bringabout a convention to frame a federal Constitution; and when at lastthat work was done, no one, not even Hamilton himself, was more zealousto convince his countrymen that national salvation depended upon union,and that union was hopeless unless the Constitution should be adopted.The disappointment and the shock were all the greater when he graduallydrew off from those who had hitherto counted him as on their side. Theycould not understand how he could find so much to oppose in thelegitimate administration--as they believed it to be--of a Constitutionhe had done so much to create, and the beneficent results of which hehad foreseen and foretold. Or, if they understood him, it was on thesupposition that he had thrown his convictions and his principles to thewinds, abandoned his old friends and attached himself to new ones, frommotives of personal ambition. This, of course, may not have beenabsolutely just. It is quite possible that he did not deliberatelysurrender his principles, but persuaded himself that he was as true asever to the Constitution. It is, nevertheless, certainly true that themen with whom he was now acting were the men who, having failed toprevent the adoption of the Constitution, now aimed, by zealousendeavors for an assumed strict construction, to defeat the purpose forwhich it was framed.[14]Naturally his motives were suspected, and his conduct narrowly watched.Jefferson's influence over him was known to be great, and Jefferson hadhad nothing to do with the framing of the Constitution, had beendoubtful at first of its wisdom, and gave his assent to it at last withmany doubts. The Anti-Federal party was growing gradually stronger inVirginia as in all the Southern States; most of Madison's warmestpersonal friends, as well as Jefferson, were of that party. What chancewould he have in the public career he had marked out for himself if hispath and theirs led in opposite directions? How much he was influencedby these considerations it is impossible to tell; perhaps he himselfcould not have told. Perhaps they were not even considerations, but onlyunconscious influences, which he would have thrown behind him had herecognized them as possible motives. To others, however, whether justlyor not, they were quite sufficient to explain his course, and, onceaccepted, no other explanation was sought for. The appointment ofFreneau to office at Madison's request, followed by the almost immediateappearance of a violent party organ, edited by this clerk in Mr.Jefferson's department, was quite enough to raise an outcry among theFederalists; and Madison's explanation, when it came to be known, of hisshare in that business, did not add to his reputation either forfrankness or political rectitude. Perhaps it was at first more theseeming want of frankness that disgusted his old friends. They couldhave more readily forgiven him had he openly declared that he had goneover to the enemy, instead of professing to find in the Constitutionsufficient ground for hostility to their measures. These constitutionalscruples they sometimes thought so thin a disguise of other motives asto be better deserving of ridicule than of argument.All he said and did was watched with suspicion. In the interval betweenthe First and Second Congresses, he and Jefferson made a tour throughsome of the Eastern States, as they said, for relaxation and pleasure.But it was looked upon as a strategic movement. Interviews between themand Livingston and Burr in New York were reported to Hamilton as "apassionate courtship." They visited Albany, it was said, "under thepretext of a botanical excursion," but in reality to meet with Clinton.Botany naturally suggests agriculture, and as they continued on theirjourney into New England they were accused of "sowing tares" as theytraveled. Such treachery would have been considered as aggravated byhypocrisy had it been known then that on his return Mr. Madison wrote tohis father from New York: "The tour I lately made with Mr. Jefferson,of which I have given the outlines to my brother, was a very agreeableone, and carried us through interesting country, new to us both." Thiswas cool, if the journey really was a political reconnoissance.Though Mr. Madison may have been for a time a special target for thiskind of partisan rancor, it was by no means confined to him. Jeffersonhad a very pretty talent for exasperating his enemies, and nobody couldlong divide with him the distinction of being the best hated man in thecountry. A curious instance of it was given when the question wasdiscussed, both in the First and Second Congresses, as to the successorto the presidency in case the office should become vacant by the deathsof both President and Vice-President. A bill was sent down from theSenate to the House providing, in case such a thing should ever happen,that the president _pro tempore_ of the Senate, or, should the Senatehave no temporary president, the speaker of the House ofRepresentatives, should succeed to the vacant office. The House sentback the bill with an amendment substituting the secretary of state forthe succession in the possible vacancy instead of the presiding officersof the two houses of Congress. Madison was very earnest for thisamendment, but the Senate rejected it, and the House finally assented tothe original bill. It was shown in the course of the debate thataccording to the doctrine of chances the office of president would notdevolve, through the accident of death, upon a third person oftener thanonce in about eight hundred and forty years. The rejection of theamendment naming the secretary of state as the proper person to succeedto the presidency, in the improbable event supposed, was neverthelessresented by the Republicans as a direct reflection upon Mr. Jefferson.Nor did the Federalists deny it. With grim humor they seized upon theopportunity, apparently, to announce that not with their consent shouldhe ever be president, even by accident, though he should wait literallyeight hundred and forty years. It was a long-range shot, but there couldnot have been one better aimed.If before there had been some room for hope, Madison's course in theSecond Congress left no doubt as to which party he had cast his lotwith. His hostility to the establishment of a bank was, he thought,justified by what he saw at the opening of the subscription books in NewYork. The anxiety to get possession of the stock was not to him anevidence of public confidence, and an argument, therefore, in favor ofsuch an institution, but "a mere scramble for so much public plunder."He could only see that "stock-jobbing drowns every other subject. Thecoffee-house is in an eternal buzz with the gamblers." "It prettyclearly appears also," he said, "in what proportions the public debtlies in the country, what sort of hands holding it, and by whom thepeople of the United States are to be governed." Here, perhaps, was onecause of his hostility to Hamilton's financial policy. Its immediatebenefit was for that class whose pecuniary stake in the stability of thegovernment was the largest. This class was chiefly in the NorthernStates, where capital was in money and was always on the lookout forsafe and profitable investment. At the South, capital was in slaves andland, and could not be easily changed. If the Bank and the bondholderswere to exercise--as he feared they would, and as he believed that theFederalists meant they should--a controlling influence over thegovernment, it was certainly pretty apparent "by whom the people of theUnited States were to be governed." It would be the North, not theSouth; and he was a Virginian before he was a Unionist.Perhaps he was influenced by this consideration when he proposed thatthe payment of the domestic debt should be divided between those who hadoriginally held, and those who had acquired by purchase, thecertificates of indebtedness. The public creditors would in that casehave been more widely distributed in different sections of the countryand among different classes. The thought, at any rate, does not seem tohave been a new one when he saw and reported the eagerness with whichthe bank stock was sought for, denounced it as stock-jobbing andgambling, and indignantly reflected that in these men he saw the futuregovernors of the country, and particularly of his own people. No doubtthere was a good deal of speculation; and, as at all such times, therewere a few who made fortunes, while many, who had at first much moneyand no stock, next much stock and no money, had at last neither stocknor money. But Mr. Madison's indignation was quite wasted, and his fearsquite unfounded. Neither the stock-jobbers, the Bank, nor thebondholders ever usurped the government, whatever may have beenHamilton's hopes or schemes, if he had any other than to serve hiscountry. The money-power of the North built cities and ships, factoriesand towns, and stretched out its hands to the great lakes and over thebroad prairies, to add to its dominion, to extend its civilization, andto give to labor and industry their due reward. It was the South thatdevoted itself to the business of politics, and, united by strongerbonds than can ever be forged of gold alone, soon entered intopossession of the government, which it retained and used for its owninterests, without regard to the interests or the rights of the North,for nearly three quarters of a century. Mr. Madison had no prescience ofany such future in the history of the country, nor, indeed, then hadanybody else. He may have really believed that the holders of a largepublic debt and the owners of a great national bank, through which themonetary affairs of the country could be controlled, were aiming to layhold of the government. If all this were true, imminent peril wasimpending over republican institutions. The inconsistency of whichHamilton accused Madison was therefore not necessarily a crime. Itmight even be a virtue, and Madison be applauded for his courage inavowing a change of opinion, if he saw in the practical application ofHamilton's principles dangers that had not occurred to him when lookingat them only as abstract theories. But the Federalists believed thatMadison, governed by these purely selfish motives, sacrificed hisconvictions of what was best for the country that he might secure forhimself a position on what he foresaw was the winning side. It is quitelikely that the more pronounced enmity he showed towards Hamilton duringthe second session of Congress was due in some measure to his knowledgeof this feeling towards himself among Federalists. He seemed, at anyrate, to be animated by something more than the proverbial zeal of thenew convert. If it was not always shown in debate, it lurked in hisletters. Anything that came from the secretary, or anything that favoredthe secretary's measures, was sure to be opposed by him. He was not, ofcourse, always in the wrong, and sometimes he was very right. There wasa manifest disposition on the part of the Federalists in the House todefer to the secretary in a way to provoke opposition from those who didnot share in their estimate of his great ability. There was someresentment, for example, when it was proposed that Congress shouldsubmit to the secretary the question of ways and means to carry on theIndian war at the West, after St. Clair's disastrous defeat, and when, afew days later, it was suggested that he should be called upon toreport a plan for the reduction of the public debt. Members, chief amongthem Madison, thought that they were quite capable of discharging theduties belonging to their branch of the government without instructionsfrom a head of department whom many of them looked upon as only anofficial subordinate of Congress. For the same reason they refused withprompt decision to permit the secretary to appear upon the floor of theHouse to explain some proposed measure. In the Carrington letterHamilton said that he had "openly declared" a "determination to treathim [Madison] as a political enemy." He probably took care that Madisonshould hear of it, for he was not a man who made idle threats. He wassometimes arrogant and overbearing in manner, was always ready for afight, which he rather preferred to quietude, and had little dispositionto spare an enemy. These were not conciliating qualities likely totemper the asperities of political warfare, and they may have provokedeven Madison, mild-mannered and almost timid as he was, to unusual heat.All this, of course, is aside from the question whether the party, towhich Mr. Madison had given his allegiance, was right or wrong. On thatpoint there may be an honest difference of opinion. It is apart alsofrom the question whether a man may not honestly change sides inpolitics, notwithstanding the suspicion that always follows him who runsfrom one side to the other, when in neither has there been any changein principles or measures. It is quite possible that he may be governedby the most sincere convictions; and if he obeys them and abandons oldfriends for new ones, or consents to be friendless, it is the strongestproof the statesman or politician can give of a moral courage whichought to gain for him all the more respect. But whether that respectmust be denied to Mr. Madison, because he was governed by other andlower motives, is the question. There had been no change of politicalprinciples either in the party he had left or the party he had joined;but each was striving with all its might to adapt the old doctrines tothe altered condition of affairs under the new Union. The change waswholly in Mr. Madison. That which had been white to him was now black;that which had been black was now as the driven snow. Why was this? Hadhe come to see that in all those years he had been wrong? Or had hesuddenly learned, not that he was wrong, but that he had mistaken astraight and narrow path for the broad road which would lead to the goalhe was seeking? These are not pleasant questions. He had served hiscountry well; one does not like to doubt whether it was with a selfishrather than a noble purpose. But of any public man who changed front ashe changed, the question always will be, What moved him? Not to ask itin regard to Madison is to drop out of sight the turning-point of hiscareer; not to consider it is to leave unheeded essential light uponone side of his character. For his own fortunes the choice he made wasjudicious, if to "gain the whole world" is always the wisest and bestthing to do. He gained his world, and was wise and virtuous in hisgeneration according to the vote of a large majority. Whether thatdecision still holds good it is not so easy to say; probably it does,however; for the popular estimate of men often remains unchanged longafter the judgment upon the events which gave them celebrity iscompletely reversed. But history, in the long run, weighs with evenscales; and the verdict on Madison's character usually comes with thatpitiful recommendation to mercy from a jury loath to condemn. Admirationfor his great services in the Constitutional Convention and after it,when its work was presented to the people for their approval, has neverbeen withheld; upon his official integrity and his high sense of honorin all his personal relations, except when obligation to party may haveovershadowed it, there rests no cloud; and his intellectual power isnever questioned. One having these recognized qualities, and who forfive and twenty years was generally high in office, must needs be heldin high estimation, especially in a new country where fame, likeeverything else, is cheap. Nevertheless, impartial historians, whoventure to believe that nature admits of imperfections in a native ofVirginia, declare their conviction that Mr. Madison either wanted thestrength and courage to resist the influence of those about him, or thatthe ambition of the politician was strong enough to overcome anyconsideration of principles that might stand in his way.FOOTNOTE:[Footnote 14: "I reverence the Constitution," said Fisher Ames indebate, "and I readily admit that the frequent appeal to that as astandard proceeds from a respectful attachment to it. So far it is asource of agreeable reflection. But I feel very different emotions whenI find it almost daily resorted to in questions of little importance.When by strained and fanciful constructions it is made an instrument ofcasuistry, it is to be feared it may lose something in our minds inpoint of certainty, and more in point of dignity."]CHAPTER XIIIFRENCH POLITICSIf any proof were wanting of how completely Madison had gone over to theopposition, he gave it in the memorable attack upon the secretary of thetreasury in the spring of 1793, within four days of the close of thesecond session of the Second Congress. It was hoped by that proceedingto overwhelm Hamilton with disgrace, and that the President would feelhimself obliged to expel him from the cabinet. When the resolutions withthis aim were offered, a member said that delicacy, decency, and everyrule of justice had been violated; "a more unhandsome proceeding he hadnever seen in Congress;" he might have remained a member to this day,and, save for the attempts in our time to expel John Quincy Adams andJoshua R. Giddings, not have changed his opinion.In the course of the preceding year Hamilton, under various signatures,had met his opponents in the newspapers. But it was a veil, not a visor,behind which he fought; for everybody knew from whom came the vigorousblows that he dealt about him right and left. It was a boast always ofJefferson that he never condescended to newspaper controversy; but itwas pretty well understood that he himself did not enter upon thatrather unsatisfactory mode of warfare because he preferred the safermethod of fighting by proxy. Hamilton never was in doubt as to who washis real antagonist, and he aimed his blows over the heads of his pettyassailants to where he knew they would hit home. They left bad bruisesupon his colleague in the cabinet. Among other papers of the time,though not a newspaper article, was an official letter to the President,in which Hamilton defended his principles and his measures. Early in1792 the President, longing to escape the toils of public life and tospend the rest of his days in tranquillity, had consulted Madison andhis two secretaries, Jefferson and Hamilton, upon the propriety of hisdeclining a re?lection. He soon changed his mind, influenced, perhaps,as much by the dissensions, so evident in the expostulations of hisfriends, as by the expostulations themselves. He deprecated this openfeud between his secretaries as a public misfortune, and sought, if hecould not reconcile them, to silence it. That the Federalists weremonarchists, as Jefferson and Madison never ceased asserting, he knewwas not true, without the emphatic and indignant declarations ofHamilton, Adams, and other leading men of that party, when theycondescended to notice a charge which they deemed so absurd that it wasdifficult to believe that anybody could make it in earnest. But, whilehe knew there was no real danger from that quarter, he could not failto see that the reverence and love in which he was held constituted abond of unity, so long as he remained chief magistrate; and he may havefelt that, should he retire, there was no other common tie strong enoughat that moment to hold together a Union, the possible dissolution ofwhich was, both at the North and at the South, considered with calmness,sometimes with complacency, and, when party passion was at a red heat,even as a thing to be prayed for. At any rate, the President consentedto take the advice of the counselors whom he had consulted; but inasking that advice he unwittingly aggravated the quarrel among themwhich caused him so much uneasiness.Jefferson, in the arguments he set forth both in conversation and byletter to influence Washington's decision, dwelt upon the unhappycondition of public affairs. It was a storm which he himself meant toget out of by retiring to Monticello, though he thought it wasWashington's duty to remain at the helm and keep an eye to windward.This unhappy condition of affairs, he said, had all come from the coursepursued by the secretary of the treasury, and was the naturalconsequence of the acts of Congress in relation to the public debt, theBank, excise, currency, and other important measures passed inaccordance with the secretary's policy. Whether this policy was meant todestroy the Union, subvert the republic, and establish a monarchy uponits ruins, at any rate such must be the inevitable result of thosemischievous measures. He urged this view of the subject with suchpertinacity that Washington, either because he was impressed by so muchearnestness, or because he was curious to know how the assertions couldbest be answered, sent them to Hamilton, with other objections of asimilar character from other persons, and asked for a reply. No nameswere given, but it is not likely that Hamilton was at any loss inguessing where such strictures upon his administration of affairs camefrom. "I have not fortitude enough," he said in his answer, "always tohear with calmness calumnies which necessarily include me as a principalobject in the measures censured, of the falsehood of which I have themost unqualified consciousness.... I acknowledge that I cannot beentirely patient under charges which impeach the integrity of my publicmotives or conduct. I feel that I merit them in no degree, andexpressions of indignation sometimes escape me in spite of every effortto suppress them." There were only two men in the country whom he couldhave had in mind when he wrote such words as these. In all Washington'scareer there is nowhere a stronger proof of his strong will,self-reliance, and passionless impartiality than that he could standbetween two such furnaces as Hamilton on one side and Jefferson andMadison on the other, both glowing at the intensest white heat, while heremained usually as calm and as unmoved as if breathing the softest,balmiest, and gentlest airs of a day in June. But all this personalcontroversy in the public prints, and in the official intercourse of thecabinet, left on both sides an intense exasperation, which could notfail to have a controlling influence in the conduct of politicalparties. Whether Jefferson was conscious or not--and whatever hisfeeling was, Madison shared it with him--that in this paper warfare hewas signally defeated, the attempt to ruin Hamilton by an attack uponhim in Congress followed, if it was not the consequence of, themortification of defeat.In February, 1793, Mr. Giles, a representative from Virginia, offered aseries of resolutions calling upon the President for certain informationrelating to the finances. They were a bold attack upon the secretary ofthe treasury, and, should it prove that they could not be satisfactorilyanswered, would convict him of mismanagement of the financial affairs ofthe government, of a disregard of law, of usurpation of power, and evenof embezzlement of the public funds. Any reasonable ground for believingsuch charges to be well-founded would be quite sufficient to bring thesecretary to trial by impeachment. There was probably little doubt atthe moment as to whence this blow came; for though the hand might seemthe hand of Esau, the voice was the voice of Jacob. Behind Giles wasMadison; and behind Madison, of course, was Jefferson. Mr. John C.Hamilton, in his "History of the Republic," asserts that the resolutionswere still--when he wrote, twenty-five years ago--in the archives ofthe State Department at Washington, in Madison's handwriting; and hefurther declares that Giles assured Rufus King that Madison was theirauthor.Hamilton's reply, so far as any intentional wrong-doing was imputed tohim, was conclusive. There had been technical violations of acts ofCongress in one instance, but it was only to carry out the actsthemselves. Congress had, three years before, passed two actsauthorizing the negotiation of two loans, one for twelve million dollarsfor the discharge of the foreign debt, and another for two milliondollars to be used at home. It had been convenient, and had conduced tothe success of the negotiation, to offer in Holland to contract a loanfor fourteen million dollars, without the unnecessary, and to foreignersprobably the confusing, statement that the authority for borrowing thatamount was derived from two separate acts of Congress. It was only inthis borrowing of the money that there was any seeming disregard of theletter of the law. The loans and their purposes were kept entirelydistinct in the accounts of the department. Other questions touching themanagement of these loans were so clearly and frankly explained thatnothing but the captiousness of party could refuse to be satisfied. Onone point--the charge of an alleged deficit--the opposition wasabsolutely silenced. The secretary indignantly explained that thesum--as anybody could have known for the asking from any officer in theTreasury Department--which was made to appear as missing was in creditsfor customs bonds not yet due, and bills of exchange on Europe sold butnot yet paid for.Though there was enough of decency, or of prudence which took the placeof decency, to drop the insinuation that the secretary had stolen whathad never been in his possession, it was not so with the rest of theaccusations. Only four days before Congress was to adjourn, Gilesoffered another set of resolutions. These assumed that the defiance oflaw and unwarranted assumption of power, which, at first, were onlysuggested by the inquiries, were now proved to be true by theexplanations that had been given. The indictment, therefore, was made toinclude the verdict and the sentence; the criminal was accused, was tobe found guilty, and condemned to capital punishment in one proceeding,without the privilege of trial, or a recognition of the right to beheard. The argument of the resolutions was, that certain acts were aviolation of law; that the secretary had committed all those acts; andtherefore it was the will of the House that the facts be reported to thePresident. The presumption obviously was, that the President wouldimmediately dismiss from office a disgraced and faithless publicservant. But the prosecution was an utter failure. The largest votereceived for any of the resolutions was only fifteen; that on the otherswas from seven to twelve, in a quorum of from fifty to sixty members.In the course of the debate Mr. Madison had said that "his colleague[Giles] had rendered a service highly valuable to the legislature, andno less important and acceptable to the public." The House showed by itsvotes how very far it was from agreeing with him. But Fisher Ames wroteabout that time: "Madison is become a desperate party leader, and I amnot sure of his stopping at any ordinary point of extremity." If it bereally true that he instigated this attack upon Hamilton, and was theauthor of the resolutions, using Giles as his tool to get them beforethe House, Ames's reflection was not uncharitable.It would not be just, however, to leave the impression that thehostility shown in this affair was purely personal. Both Jefferson andMadison had a hearty hatred for Hamilton which would have been greatlygratified could they have made it the plain duty of the President to puthim out of the Treasury Department a dishonored and ruined man. But thisparticular outbreak of their enmity was intensified by their sincere andearnest enthusiasm for France. They were quite willing to bring Hamiltonto grief at any time because he was Hamilton; they were more thanordinarily exasperated against him just now because in recent newspaperand other controversies he had altogether got the better of them; but inthis particular instance they wanted to punish him because of delay ofpayments in discharge of the indebtedness of the United States toFrance. This was the essential delinquency at which the Gilesresolutions were pointed. The difficulty was, not that the secretary ofthe treasury was not careful enough of the public money, but that he wastoo careful. He insisted upon being quite certain, when paying off apublic debt, that he was paying it to the right persons, and that norisk should be incurred of its being demanded a second time. He feltthere was no such certainty about payments to France. The king wasdethroned; but it was not wise, the secretary thought, to be hasty inrecognizing revolutionary governments. It was a republic to-day; itmight be a regency to-morrow; a monarchy again the third day. It wasmore prudent to await a reasonable period for the evidence of permanencyon one side or the other. Those old enough to remember the late war ofthe rebellion know how important the maintenance of this doctrine was inregard to the recognition of the rebel confederacy by England andFrance.But to all this Jefferson did not in the least agree; neither didMadison. They were in full, even passionate, sympathy with the men whobrought Louis XVI. to the guillotine. Money, they knew, was needed, andit was a crime against liberty to delay payment when payment was due tothe French government. With Hamilton the question was, not whether therevolutionists ought to be, but whether they were, France. WithJefferson and Madison they were France, because they ought to be.Hesitation to acknowledge that the Revolution was the nation, theythought, could only come from an "Anglican party," the "enemies ofFrance and of Liberty," who would lead the American people "into thearms and ultimately into the government of Great Britain,"--to use theterms in which Madison spoke, a little later, of the Federalists. Whichof these men, in this regard at least, were the thoughtful and prudentstatesmen, and which were _doctrinaires_, nobody now, probably,questions. The larger proportion of the people, however, were thencarried away by the enthusiasm for the French revolutionists. It was so,no doubt, at first without much distinction of party; but it wasinevitable, when the government should be called upon to take somedecisive stand in relation to European politics, that the country shoulddivide into two hostile camps; or, rather, that the two camps alreadyexisting should become more hostile to each other than ever. It is notnecessary to assume that the mass of the people gave themselves up toany very hard thinking about the matter. For the most part theyfollowed, as the way is with parties, the political leaders to whom theywere already accustomed, never doubting that not to do so would betreacherous to the gratitude America owed to France, and to the cause ofliberty and democracy, which, in the hands of the Frenchmen, washurling monarchs from their thrones--at least one monarch from his, andmore, it was hoped, would follow. But when the revolution ran into theterrible excesses of a later stage, if any Federalists had wavered intheir allegiance to their chiefs they soon returned, persuaded that thewild and bloody anarchy of Paris was not the road that led to theestablishment of a wise and safe popular government.There was no need now of pretexts for quarreling; real causes came fastenough. France declared war against England, and the United States hadits part to play in this strife of giants. Its real interest was to keepout of trouble; and, if all were agreed on that point, it does not seemthat there should have been much difficulty in saying so. "It behoovesthe government of this country," wrote Washington to Hamilton, "to useevery means in its power to prevent the citizens thereof from embroilingus with either of those powers, by endeavoring to maintain a strictneutrality." It is difficult to conceive of a man being sincerelydesirous of helping neither one side nor the other; of injuring neitherone side nor the other; of maintaining, so far as help or harm could go,an attitude of absolute impartiality towards both,--it is difficult toconceive of such a man quarreling with the word "neutrality" as appliedto his position. But Jefferson, nevertheless, quarreled with it; notfrankly and directly as a thing he did not want, but captiously andhypercritically objecting to the word to cover his dislike to the thingitself. "A declaration of neutrality," he said, "was a declaration thatthere should be no war, to which the Executive was not competent."It was true that the Executive was not competent to declare that thereshould be no war; it was not true that the use of the word "neutrality"could have any such application to the future as to prevent Congress,when it should assemble, from declaring war should it see fit to do so.But meanwhile, Congress not being in session, and no exigency havingarisen that made it desirable in the President's judgment to call anextra session, he, with the assent of the cabinet,--for Jefferson didnot venture upon direct opposition,--issued a proclamation "to exhortand warn the citizens of the United States carefully to avoid all actsand proceedings whatsoever" that might interfere with "the duty andinterest of the United States" to "adopt and pursue a conduct friendlyand impartial towards the belligerent powers." The objectionable wordwas left out in deference to Mr. Jefferson, who, really preferring thatthere should be no proclamation at all, hoped to take the sting out ofit by the omission of a phrase. It was the thing said, not the way ofsaying it, that the President insisted upon, as it was his duty topreserve the peace till the legislature should declare for war, and hisinclination to preserve it altogether.It can hardly be doubted that Jefferson and his friends saw as plainlyas the other party saw how perilous to the interests of the UnitedStates a foreign war would probably be. But, while professing a desireto avoid it, they were far more anxious, apparently, to give aid, moralas well as material, to France, with whose revolutionary struggles theysympathized so deeply, than they were to avoid offense to England, whomthey hated and would gladly see crippled. Not to be an enemy of Englandthey held was to be an enemy of France; and not of France merely, but ofthe "rights of man." They could not or would not comprehend any wisdomin moderation, any prudence in delay. It is curious to see how partyanimosity blinded even the best of them. The objection to the word"neutrality" was a mere quibble; for the proclamation called upon allgood citizens to maintain at their peril that state which, in alldictionaries, neutrality is defined to be. Mr. Jefferson, in instructingas secretary of state the American ministers abroad as to the attitudeassumed by the government, could find no better term than "a fairneutrality." The fact was, the Republican leaders wished to avoid takingany positive stand, partly because delay might be a help to France, andpartly in obedience to the law of party politics, in opposition to theother side. They were not at first quite sure of their ground, andwanted to gain time. Mr. Madison seems to have waited about six weeksbefore he could venture upon a positive opinion as to the proclamation.The newspapers helped him to a knowledge of party opinion, and partyopinion helped him to make up his own. "Every 'Gazette' I see,"--hewrote in June, about eight weeks after the proclamation waspublished,--"every 'Gazette' I see (except that of the United States[Federalist]) exhibits a spirit of criticism on the Anglified complexioncharged on the Executive politics.... The proclamation was, in truth, amost unfortunate error." A week before, he had been seemingly cautiouseven in writing to Jefferson. Then he had observed that newspapercriticisms aroused attention, and he had heard expressions of surprise"that the President should have declared the United States to be neutralin the unqualified terms used, when we were so notoriously andunequivocally under eventual engagements to defend the Americanpossessions of France. I have heard it remarked, also, that theimpartiality enjoined on the people was as little reconcilable withtheir moral obligations as the unconditional neutrality proclaimed bythe government is with the express articles of the treaty." He adds: "Ihave been mortified that on these points I could offer no _bona fide_explanations that might be satisfactory." He was not in doubt long,however. Mr. Jefferson sent him within two or three weeks a series ofpapers by Hamilton, under the signature of "Pacificus," in defense ofthe proclamation, and urged him to reply. This Madison undertook to doat once, and in five papers, under the signature of "Helvidius," hetook up all the points in dispute.The question relating to treaty obligations was the more serious. By thetreaty of 1778 the United States had guaranteed "to his Most ChristianMajesty the present possessions of the Crown of France in America." Anattempt on the part of Great Britain to take any of the French WestIndia Islands would involve the United States in the war. How, then, Mr.Madison's friends might well ask, as in the letter just quoted he saidthey did, could "the President declare the United States to be neutralin the unqualified terms used, when we were so notoriously andunequivocally under eventual engagements to defend the Americanpossessions of France"? Hamilton's ground was that the treaty, by itsterms, was "a defensive alliance," and therefore not binding in thiscase, inasmuch as the present war against England was offensive; andthat, besides, the treaty was in suspension, as France herself was, in asense, in suspension, having only a provisional government, thepermanent and legitimate successor to which was uncertain. But animportant point was gained, it was thought, in the decision to receiveGenet as the French minister. Hamilton, still acting in accordance withthat cautious policy which he thought to be, in such a crisis, the mostjudicious, questioned whether a minister from the provisional governmentin Paris should be recognized without reservations. Such an ambassadormight be followed presently by another accredited by a new power in therevolutionary progress. This would, at the least, be an awkward dilemmanot to be recovered from without the loss of some dignity by thegovernment of the United States. But this point also was yielded indeference to Jefferson, and much to his mortification the concessionturned out to be before he was many weeks older."I anxiously wish," Madison wrote to Jefferson, "that the reception ofGenet may testify what I believe to be the real affections of thepeople." He was amply gratified. From Charleston, where he landed, toPhiladelphia, Genet was received with the warmest enthusiasm by all whosympathized with France, and by that larger number among Americans whoare always ready to hurrah for anything or anybody that has caught thepopular fancy. Madison watched his progress with great interest, andapparently with some misgivings. Writing again a few days later toJefferson, he says that "the fiscal party in Alexandria was an overmatchfor those who wished to testify the American sentiment." Indeed, hethinks it certain, he says in the same letter, "that Genet will bemisled if he takes either the fashionable cant of the cities or the coldcaution of the government for the sense of the public,"--fallinghimself, before he reaches the end of the sentence, into the cant ofassuming neutrality in the government to be only a "mask" behind whichto hide its "secret Anglomany." But he was quite mistaken in supposingthat Genet was likely to be misled, or led at all, by anybody. He wasalmost capable, as General Knox said, of declaring the United States adepartment of France, and of levying troops here to reduce the Americansto obedience. The man's conduct, if it had not been so outrageous, wouldhave been ludicrous in its assumption of power, its disregard of thelaws of the country, and its defiance of the government. Within threemonths of his arrival Jefferson himself was constrained to acknowledgethat he had developed "a character and conduct so unexpected and soextraordinary as to place us in the most distressing dilemma, betweenour regard for his nation, which is constant and sincere, and a regardfor our laws, the authority of which must be maintained; for the peaceof our country, which the executive magistrate is charged to preserve;for its honor, offended in the person of that magistrate; and for itscharacter, grossly traduced in the conversations and letters of thisgentleman." Though this was in an official letter, it gave, no doubt,Jefferson's real opinion; for no man had more reason than he forresenting the conduct of the irrepressible Frenchman. Jefferson has beenaccused of too much familiarity with the French minister in private, andof tardiness in the discharge of his own duty as secretary where it waslikely to clash with the other's schemes. Genet himself complained thathe was thrown over by Jefferson after receiving from him everyencouragement. This is, of course, true, but not in the leastdiscreditable to Jefferson. When Genet arrived in Philadelphia, he was,although he had already committed some illegal acts in Charleston,profuse in his promises of good behavior. The secretary of state hadwelcomed him as the representative of France and the Revolution, andnaturally he meant to make the most he could out of him, for the sake ofthe Republican party, as well as for the sake of the sacred cause of"liberty, equality, and fraternity." But he soon saw that he was dealingwith one who was a cross between a mountebank and a madman, as we learnfrom a letter of Madison to Jefferson, written within two months ofJefferson's first interview with Genet. "Your account of Genet," saysthe letter, "is dreadful. He must be brought right if possible. Hisfolly will otherwise do mischief which no wisdom can repair."The mischief dreaded was that the administration party would takeadvantage of the insolent and outrageous conduct of the French ministerto show the folly of precipitancy, and to gain popularity and strengthfor itself. Madison soon writes to Jefferson to acquaint him with thereaction taking place in Virginia, "in the surprise and disgust of thosewho are attached to the French cause, and who viewed this minister asthe instrument for cementing, instead of alienating, the two republics."He asserts that "the Anglican party is busy, as you may suppose, inmaking the worst of everything, and in turning the public feelingsagainst France and thence in favor of England." In a sense this musthave been true. The "fiscals," the "Anglomanys," the "Anglican party,"the "monarchists,"--which were Mr. Madison's pet names for his oldfriends,--were good enough politicians to take great satisfaction inkeeping well stirred and in lively use the muddy waters into which theiropponents had floundered. They were not, probably, careful always toremember that France was neither the better nor worse, neither the wisernor the less wise, because one of the mad fanatics, bred of theRevolution, had found his way, unfortunately, to the United States as aminister plenipotentiary. But, on the other hand, it was not true thatthere was any "Anglican party," in the sense in which Madison used theterm,--a party led by men who were "the enemies of France and ofliberty, at work to lead the well-meaning from their honorableconnection with those [the French people] into the arms and ultimatelyinto the government of Great Britain." Washington said that he did notbelieve there were ten men in the United States, whose opinions deservedany respect, who would change the form of government to a monarchy. Butif there were only ten men in the country whose opinions, in theestimate of Jefferson and Madison, were not worth much, Washington wasamong them. The affection and reverence, with which he was regarded bythe people, they would have been glad to appeal to on behalf of theirown party; but it is easy to read between the lines in Jefferson's"Ana," and in his and Madison's correspondence, that they looked uponthe President as the dupe of his secretary of the treasury. Not thatthey were ever wanting in terms of respect and even of veneration forthe President, but the tone was often one of pitiful regret almost akinto contempt."I am extremely afraid," Madison wrote to Jefferson, "that the Presidentmay not be sufficiently aware of the snares that may be laid for hisgood intentions by men whose politics at bottom are very different fromhis own." Again he says, a few days later: "I regret extremely theposition into which the President has been thrown. The unpopular causeof Anglomany is openly laying claim to him. His enemies, maskingthemselves under the popular cause of France, are playing off the mosttremendous batteries on him.... It is mortifying to the real friends ofthe President that his fame and his influence should have anything toapprehend from the success of liberty in another country, since he oweshis pre?minence to the success of it in his own. If France triumphs, theill-fated proclamation will be a millstone, which would sink any othercharacter and will force a struggle even on his." Yet it is certain thatWashington was not in the least doubt as to his own politicalprinciples; that he was never in danger of being inveigled into thebetrayal of those principles, whatever they might be; and that he wasquite capable of due care for his own reputation.If Madison did not know that these tears over Washington, if sincere,were quite uncalled for, Jefferson was not in the least deceived. Herecords in his "Ana" that the President, referring to certain articlesthat had recently appeared in Freneau's "Gazette," said that "heconsidered those papers as attacking him [Washington] directly; for hemust be a fool indeed to swallow the little sugar-plums here and therethrown out to him; that in condemning the administration of thegovernment they condemned him, for if they thought there were measurespursued contrary to his sentiments, they must conceive him too carelessto attend to them, or too stupid to understand them." Again, some monthslater, the President, alluding to another article in Freneau'spaper,--that "rascal Freneau," as he called him,--said "that he despisedall their attacks on him personally, but there never had been an act ofthe government--not meaning in the executive line only, but in anyline--which that paper had not abused. He was evidently sore and warm,"continues the candid secretary, "and I took his intention to be, that Ishould interpose in some way with Freneau, perhaps withdraw hisappointment of translating clerk in my office. But I will not do it."These frank and indignant avowals of feeling and opinion were not, if wemay believe Jefferson, unusual with Washington, even in cabinetmeetings; and it seems hardly likely that Madison, who was on the mostfriendly and intimate terms with the President, could have been soignorant of how he felt and thought as to suppose him the mere dupe ofdesigning men. The truth is, probably, that Madison did not, any morethan Jefferson, believe this. It was only a bit of party tactics toassume, lest the President should have too much influence over the mindsof the people, that, in the hands of the wicked "Anglicists," he was asclay in the hands of the potter. The two friends, whether in writing orby speech they lamented and excused the unhappy position, as they werepleased to call it, of the President, must have appeared to each otherlike the Roman augurs in G?r?me's picture.CHAPTER XIVHIS LATEST YEARS IN CONGRESSGenet was at last got rid of, but the evil that he did lived after him.His presence had provoked an outbreak, to some degree, of the phenomenaof the French Revolution, which, however significant they might be inthe upheaval of an old monarchical despotism, were an unwholesome growthamong a simple people, where one man was as good as another before thelaw; where, from the first settlement of the country, all had largelypossessed the advantages of a popular government; and where any otherthan a republican government for the future was wellnigh impossible. Formen to address each other as "citizen," as if the word had the newsignificance in America that it had just gained in France; to sweareternal fidelity to liberty, equality, and fraternity, as if these werelately discovered rights which had been denied the common people forcenturies by kings and nobles, who had always lived in the next streetin inconceivable luxury wrung from the blood and sweat of the poor; toform Jacobin clubs pledged to the suppression of the tyranny ofaristocrats in a country where, as Samuel Dexter said of New England,there was hardly a man rich enough to own a carriage, and few so poor asnot to own a horse; for men thus to ape those revolutionary ways, whichmeant so much in Paris, may have seemed at the moment, to sober-mindedpeople, more fantastic than harmful. It was harmful, however, insomuchas it substituted sentiment for common sense, and made enthusiasm, notreason, the guide of conduct. A character was given to politicalconflict which obtained for years to come. There was, it is true, acertain manliness about it in remarkable contrast with that maudlinsentimentality of our time which is rather inclined to ask pardon of therebels of the late civil war for having put them to the trouble ofgetting up a rebellion. It was a conflict, nevertheless, more of partypassion than of principle, wherein it is impossible to see that eitherparty was absolutely right, or either absolutely wrong. The Francomaniaphase of it disappeared for a time in John Adams's administration; butit revived again, and gave intensity and virulence to the politicalstruggles, in the first decade of this century. Then it was that menwent about their daily affairs with cockades on their hats asdistinctive party badges. In their social as well as in their businessrelations they were governed by party affinities. Neighbors differing inpolitics would hardly speak to each other, and each was always ready toaccept the other's political crookedness as the measure of his possibledepravity in everything else. They would hardly walk on the same sideof the street; or sail in the same packet; or ride in the samestage-coach; or buy their groceries at the same shop; or listen to thepreaching of the gospel from the same pulpit; indeed, if the preacherwas known to have pronounced political opinions, he was held, by thosewho did not agree with him, as one from whose shoulders the clericalgown should be torn.Gratitude to France had not yet even become traditional, and it wasintensified by the deepest sympathy for a people struggling for what, bytheir aid, Americans had so recently gained. Added to this was the oldhatred to England, which England as carefully nursed as if it were hersettled policy, by exciting Indian hostilities on the borders, byoutrages on the high seas, and by an interference with Americancommerce, exercised with as little consideration of the rights of anindependent nation as if the States were still colonies in revolt. Neverdid a party find, ready made and close at hand, so many elements ofpopularity; and these being appealed to as Genet appealed to them, itwas easy to set the country in a blaze. When the administration wasdetermined that he should be recalled, and the Republican leaders wereanxious to get rid of him, as they could not restrain him, Jeffersonopposed, in a meeting of the cabinet, the proposition to ask for hisrecall, lest such popular indignation should be aroused as would enablethe French minister to defy the government itself. The seed sowed bysuch a man, on such a soil, bore fruit a thousand fold for almost ageneration. It is not to be wondered at that the Federalists could notlong hold their own against a party that did not ask the people tothink, but bade them only to remember--much, indeed, that ought to beremembered--and to feel. That is always so much easier to do than theother, and it is always so much easier to appeal effectually tosentiment than to reflection, that the wonder rather is that theFederalists could hold their own so long as they did. All things wereagainst them but one. Washington, though altogether above any partisanbias, as he believed to be the imperative duty of the chief magistrateof the nation, conducted his administration by the principles whichdistinguished the Federalists. He was neither, as he intimated toJefferson, so careless as not to know what was done, nor such a fool asnot to understand why it was done; and so greatly was he revered for hisexalted character, so universal was the confidence in his integrity,sagacity, and sound judgment, that, so long as he remained President,the party that surrounded him was immovable as a mountain. His policywas to stave off a rupture with England, and, if possible, to bring thatpower into pacific and rational relations with the United States. Thegovernment aimed to keep itself clear of entanglement with all foreignpolitics; to maintain that perfect neutrality which should violate notreaties, offend no national friendships, provoke no jealousies, andleave England and France to fight their own battles, content that theUnited States should be an impartial spectator. Thirty years afterward,when the Federal party had ceased to exist under that title, this wasannounced as the true American policy, and was thenceforth known as "TheMonroe Doctrine," though the merit, even of re-discovery, did not belongto President Monroe.In nine cases out of ten, perhaps in ninety-nine out of a hundred, thewisest statesmanship is the knowledge when and how to compromise.Certainly that was all John Jay, whom the President sent to England tomake a treaty, could do. The treaty was a bad one; that is, it was notsuch an one as any President and Senate would have dared to consent tofor the last sixty years; it was not so good an one as that which Monroeand Pinkney negotiated ten years later, and which President Jefferson,lest it should help England and hurt France, then quietly locked up inhis desk without permitting the Senate even to know of its existence;nor was it so bad as the treaty of peace made with England in 1814. Butit was undoubtedly the best that could be done at the time. The questionwas between it and nothing; and the best its warmest defenders could saywas that it was better than nothing. No treaty meant war; and war atthat moment with England meant ruin. At least so the Federaliststhought, and, so far as human foresight could go, they were probablyright.But never was a treaty more unpopular than this, when its provisionscame to be understood. The government, in delaying to make it public,seemed to fear for its reception, and by that hesitation helped to raisethe very doubts it was afraid of. But when it was published the wholeSouth was aroused as one man on finding that the payment for fugitiveslaves, who during the war of the Revolution had sought refuge with theBritish army, was not provided for. Other concessions made to Englandwere, in other parts of the country, deemed not less humiliating andinjurious to the national honor than this refusal to pay for runawaynegroes. Also, there was a one-sided stipulation relating to commerce inthe West Indies, so injurious to American interests that the Presidentand Senate, rather than ratify it, determined to reject the whole treatyand take the consequences. There was hardly a town of any note that didnot hold its indignation meeting. Jay was burned in effigy, or theattempt was made so to express the public disapprobation, in more thanone of the larger towns. Hamilton, when at a public meeting in New Yorkhe tried to explain and defend the treaty, was stoned and compelled toretire. If the more violent opponents of the administration were to bebelieved, its members, from the President down, and all the leading menof the party supporting it, were bought by "British gold," or were readywithout being bought, but from pure original depravity, to betray theirown country and help to destroy France. The name of the ingeniousinventor of the argument of "British gold," then used for the firsttime, has unfortunately been lost; but it has stood the test of ahundred years' usage, and is as startling and conclusive to-day as itwas a century ago.There soon came, however, the sober second thought which took intoconsideration the circumstances under which the treaty was made, thepossible and even probable consequences of its rejection, as well as theobjections to the treaty itself. After the first excitement had passedaway, many thought it worth while to read for themselves what hithertothey had only reviled at the suggestion of others, or from sympathy withthe popular clamor. The commercial community, the New York Chamber ofCommerce leading the way, came to the conclusion that their rights andinterests were reasonably protected; that to be recognized as a neutralbetween two such belligerent powers as England and France was a greatpoint gained; that partial indemnity was better than total loss; andthat the chance of a fairly profitable trade in the future waspreferable to the ruin of all foreign commerce. It was universallyagreed that peace was better than war; but there was this differencebetween the two parties: while one maintained that war was not anecessary consequence of the rejection of the treaty, the other declaredit must be inevitable, where there were so many points of collisionwhich could only be escaped by mutual agreement. This was especiallytrue on the frontier, where Indian hostilities were sure to follow, andlead to general war, if the military posts, which should have been givenup at the close of the Revolution, should remain longer in the hands ofthe English.But, after all, the real question with the Republicans was the influencewhich a treaty with England might have upon the relations of France andthe United States. They detested England for her own sake; they detestedher still more for the sake of France. If there had been no question ofFrance in the way they would, perhaps, have been willing, like theFederalists, to consider the relations of England and the United Stateson their merits,--to remember that the commerce between them was greaterthan that which the United States had with any other country, the lossof which might be a disastrous check to her prosperity; that the peoplesof the two countries were, after all, of one blood, and that theirs wasa common heritage in the institutions, laws, language, and characterthat distinguished the race; that the quarrel between them was--thoughit might be the more bitter on that account--a family quarrel, and oughtfor that reason to be the more speedily settled. But, if England wouldnot remember these things,--as she never has to this day,--if, on thecontrary, she chose to be overbearing, contemptuous, insolent, quiteregardless of American rights,--as she always has been when she could beso safely,--then it behooved the United States, inasmuch as she was ayoung and as yet a feeble nation, to conciliate this powerful enemywhenever she could do so consistently with her self-respect, to avoidgiving unnecessary offense or provoking fresh injuries, and, in the meanwhile, to nurture and husband her strength, to keep an accurate accountof all the wrongs that in her weakness she should be compelled to submitto, and to bide her time. These were the principles of the Federalists.Their aim was, not the good of England, but the good of the UnitedStates. They were an American party; to them foreign relations were ofimportance mainly for the influence these might have upon theprosperity, happiness, and power of their own country. They did notforget the gratitude due to France for the aid she had given to thestruggling colonies, though that aid was given not so much for love ofAmerica as for hatred of England. The pacific and friendly relationsalready established with France they held in due estimation; and theirsympathies went out to her people in full measure in their struggle fora popular government, so long as that struggle was kept within thebounds of reason and humanity. But sympathy with and gratitude to Francedid not blind them to the wisdom and expediency of pacific and friendlyrelations with England, provided such could be established without thesacrifice of their own prosperity, independence, and national pride. Itwas only to add to that prosperity, to gain new security for thatindependence, and to build up a nation of which they and theirchildren, to the latest generation, might well be proud, that they oughtto be on good terms with that powerful state with whom they wereco-heirs in all the ideas and institutions constituting the civilizationthat made her great. They hoped to build up, west of the Atlantic Ocean,"an Inglishe Nation" in its broadest sense, of which Walter Raleigh hadhoped that he might live to see the beginning, and which the latesthistorical writers in England are just now recognizing as the mostimportant part of the modern empire of the English race.The House of Representatives was not in session when the Jay treaty wasratified by the President and Senate, but Mr. Madison's letters showthat he could see in it nothing but evil. In February, 1796, theratification by both governments was announced to both houses ofCongress, and measures were at once taken by the Republicans in thelower house to render the treaty, if possible, null and void. Aresolution, warmly supported by Mr. Madison, was offered, calling uponthe President for copies of the instructions under which Mr. Jay acted,with the correspondence and any other papers, proper to be made public,relating to the negotiation. The resolution was subjected to a debate ofthree weeks, but was finally passed. The request was refused by thePresident, on the ground that the treaty-making power was, by theConstitution, confided to the President and Senate. It was on this pointmainly that the debate had turned; and the President, in support of hisopinion as well as that of the Federalists generally, referred to hisrecollection of the plain intention of the Constitutional Convention,and to the fact that a proposition, "that no treaty should be binding onthe United States which was not ratified by law," was "explicitlyrejected." Mr. Madison said a day or two after, that, while he did notdoubt "the case to be as stated, he had no recollection of it." Of themessage itself, he said that it was "as unexpected as its tone and tenorare improper and indelicate." But Hamilton, he thought, wrote it, andthe President was, as usual, lamented over for having been taken in. Aresolution, however, was finally passed in favor of the treaty, thoughby a majority of three only. The debate upon it was earnest and long,Mr. Madison leading the opposition. His disappointment was bitter. "Theprogress of this business throughout," he wrote to Jefferson, "has beento me the most worrying and vexatious that I ever encountered; and themore so, as the causes lay in the unsteadiness, the follies, theperverseness, and the defections among our friends, more than in thestrength, or dexterity, or malice of our opponents."Though the Jay treaty was not--as was said on a previous page--such anone as the United States would have acceded to in latter times, theresult proved it to be a wise and timely measure. Notwithstanding thedisturbed condition of affairs in Europe, its influence upon the UnitedStates, and the increasing violence of faction here, the increase forthe next ten or twelve years of the commerce, and the consequent growthand prosperity, of the country were greater than the most sanguinesupporters of the treaty had dared to hope for. Their immediateexpectations that it might be possible to establish better relationswith England, without disturbing essentially those existing with France,were, however, signally disappointed. Their opponents were wiser; forthey not only measured accurately the indignation of the French by theirown, but they took good care that it should not languish for want ofencouragement. The French Directory might have been reconciled to thesituation had it been plain to them that there was neither an"Anglicized" party nor a French party in the United States, but that thepeople were united in the determination to maintain, for their ownprotection, whatever their personal sympathies might be, an absoluteneutrality between the belligerent powers. But as they were assured thattheir friends in America meant also to be their effectual allies, sothey believed that those who professed neutrality used it only as a maskfor friendship to England.James Monroe had been received in Paris as American minister, literallyas well as morally, with open arms, in that memorable scene when, in thepresence and amid the cheers of the National Convention, the president,Merlin de Douai, imprinted upon his cheeks, in the name of France, thekiss of fraternity. Till he was recalled in the latter days ofWashington's administration, Monroe was the representative not so muchof the government to which he owed allegiance as of the faction to whichhe belonged at home. He was not, it is true, unmindful of the hundredsof outrages perpetrated by French naval vessels and privateers uponAmerican merchantmen; that their crews were thrown into French prisons,and that the detention of their cargoes had brought ruin upon manyAmerican citizens; nor did he neglect to demand redress. But he seemedabsolutely incapable of understanding that if there were anything tochoose between the insults and wrongs which America was compelled tosubmit to from England and France, it was only in the greater ability ofEngland to inflict them. English ships swept the ocean, and pretextswere never wanting for overhauling American vessels, stripping them ofsome of their men, or confiscating both ships and cargoes. France had asmany pretexts, and quite as good a will to enforce them; but she hadfewer ships, and for that reason, and that only, did rather less damage.But however earnest Monroe was in insisting upon the rights of neutrals,in urging upon the French ministry the strict observance of treatyobligations, and in complaining of the constant injuries done in theirdespite, there was another thing about which he was far more earnest.He was as anxious to aid the French to baffle, if possible, Jay'snegotiations in London as if he were uncovering a plot against his owngovernment. When the ratification of the treaty was made known in Paris,the indignation of the Directory was hardly kept within bounds. Theminister of foreign affairs notified Monroe that the Directoryconsidered the stipulations of the treaty of 1778 as altered andsuspended in their most essential parts by this treaty with England.Under any circumstances the French would, no doubt, have resented theestablishment of friendly relations between the United States and theold enemy of France, with whom she at that moment was engaged in a wararousing more than the bitter inherited enmity of the two peoples. Butthe course Monroe had seen fit to pursue had done much to assure theFrench that the strong party in the United States, which he represented,would never permit the virgin republic to be delivered, as it wasassumed the treaty did deliver her, bound and gagged, into the hands ofthe power which Jefferson loved to call "the harlot England." The firstenthusiasm of the Revolution was fast growing into cant in bothcountries, and the language of devotion to liberty, equality, andfraternity was beginning to lose all meaning. But it was easy to bedeceived by the assurances, more significant in actions than in words,of an official representative, that the American people, save anAnglicized and decreasing minority, were the friends, and meant to bethe allies, of France. Of course the French were all the moreexasperated because they had permitted themselves to be deluded. Monroewas first rebuked by his own government for neglecting to do all thatmight have been done to reconcile the Directory to a treaty between theUnited States and Great Britain; and soon after, his conduct continuingunsatisfactory, he was recalled.It is, of course, possible that the French Directory were not misled;that nothing would have reconciled them to the British treaty; and thattheir subsequent course would have been the same had they believed theAmerican people were desirous to be on good terms with England solelyfor their own tranquillity and interest, and not at all because anylarge portion of them were at enmity with France. This, however, wouldnot be a valid excuse for Monroe's course as a representative of hisgovernment. The only defense for him is, that he was deceived by hisfriends at home; they must share, therefore, the responsibility for hisconduct, inasmuch as they encouraged a man not over strong in mind orcharacter, and more likely to be governed by impulse than by goodjudgment, to abuse the confidence placed in him by the administration.From any share in this responsibility, however, Madison must berelieved. He was in very constant correspondence with Monroe, and kepthim carefully advised as to the progress of the treaty. No man desiredits defeat more earnestly than he, and he believed that a majority ofthe people were opposed to it. But he evidently doubted its rejectionfrom the first, and his discussion of possibilities in his letters toMonroe was always frank and discriminating. In the end he accounted forthe vote in its favor in the House of Representatives by the activityand influence of its friends, which its opponents wanted the ability orthe time to overcome. It is probable that his colleagues of his ownparty in the House did not agree with him that public opinion wasagainst the treaty, as it was by votes from their side that itsacceptance was carried.[Illustration: D P Madison]With the ensuing session of Congress, at the close of Washington'sadministration, Madison's congressional service ended. The leadership ofthe opposition, whatever may be thought of its influence upon thewelfare of the country, or of the personal motives by which he may havebeen governed, had devolved upon him, almost from the beginning, bynatural selection of the fittest for that position. It was not an easyplace to take, either by one's own choice or by the suffrages of others;for at the head of the administration to be opposed stood the man mostrevered by a grateful country, surrounded by men among those, at least,who were best known for their past services and most esteemed for theirability and character. It was the more difficult for one whose personalrelation to the President was that of the warmest friendship; to whomthe President was accustomed to turn for counsel and even forguidance; and who, being among those eminent men to whom the people owedtheir new Constitution, was counted upon to strengthen the union of theStates and build up a strong and stable government. He played hisdifficult part, nevertheless, with dignity; if not brilliant, he wasalways ready with the best reasons that could be given for the measureshe supported; and his zeal was invariably tempered with a wisemoderation and a courtesy toward opponents which made him alwaysrespected, and sometimes feared for reserved force, in debate.Somewhat more than a year before his retirement from Congress Mr.Madison had married, and it is quite possible that this may in part havemoved him to seek rest in the tranquillity of a country life. Traditionsays that Mrs. Madison was a beautiful woman. She has in our time been amarked figure in the society of Washington, and many remember her forher fine presence, her powers of conversation, and that beauty whichsometimes belongs to the aged, though it may not have been preceded byyouthful comeliness. Her maiden name was Dolly Payne, and her parentswere members of the Society of Friends. When Madison married her she wasMrs. Todd, the widow of John Todd, a lawyer of Philadelphia. Her age atthis time was twenty-six years, Mr. Madison being forty-three, and shesurvived him thirteen years, dying in 1849. On her tombstone she iscalled "Dolley;" but Mr. Rives, in his life of her husband, evermindful of the proprieties, calls her "Dorothea," or rather, Mrs.Dorothea Payne Madison; for, like the Vicar of Wakefield, he loved togive the whole name.CHAPTER XVAT HOME--"RESOLUTIONS OF '98 AND '99"Mr. Madison, in retiring for a time from public office, did not lose hisinterest in public affairs. Of few Americans can it be said with moretruth that he had a genius for politics, and the subject, wherever hemight be, was never out of his mind. There is not much else in thevolumes of his published letters, while there is just enough else toshow that in these he said all he had to say about anything. His moreambitious writings, the papers in "The Federalist," the essay on TheBritish Doctrine of Neutral Trade, his controversial articles in thenewspapers under various pseudonyms, are all political, all able, andall of great value as a part of the history of the times. Those whichare controversial, however, must be taken, like his letters, as aids toknowledge rather than as definite conclusions to be accepted withoutquestion. It does not detract from the value of these letters, however,that they are written from the point of view of a party leader. Affairsof only temporary importance sometimes loom up before him merely becauseof their influence upon some immediate party movement; and others, offar-reaching consequences, which have no such bearing, escape hisnotice altogether; but the reader soon learns that he may, at any rate,confide in the sincerity of the writer, and accept as freely the reasonsgiven for his course as they are frankly stated.Of the literary value of his writings, aside from their historicalinterest, there is not much to be said, though Mr. Madison always wrote,even in his letters, as if writing for posterity. He was not felicitousin the use of language; the style is turgid, heavy with resounding wordsof many syllables, unillumined by any ray of imagination, any flash ofwit or of humor; and the sentences are often involved and badly puttogether. But there is a genuineness, an evident sincerity of purpose,in all he wrote, and occasionally an expression of deep feeling, whichare always impressive. We search for glimpses of his private life andcharacter in such letters, for they are not easily apparent. In onesense he had no private life, or, at least, none that was not sosubordinate to his public career that there was little in it eithersignificant or attractive. There is, in this respect, a marked contrastbetween his correspondence and that of Jefferson. There was, possibly, alittle affectation in Jefferson's frequent assertions of his intensedesire for the quiet of the country and the tranquillity of home, and ofhis distaste for the turmoils and anxieties of public office. But he wascertainly fond of country life, with the leisure to potter about amonghis sheep and his trees; to watch the growth of his wheat and hisclover; to contrive new coulters for his plows; to talk of philosophy,of the Social Contract, of mechanics, and of natural history: if he wasaverse to public life, it was not because political power anddistinction were a burden to him, except as they brought with themstrife and unpopularity, which truly his soul loathed for himself,though he rather liked to set other people by the ears. His private lifewas unquestionably as full of interest to himself as it is entertainingto look upon in the unconscious revelation of his own letters.But with Madison it was apparently quite otherwise. He unbent withdifficulty. Always solemn and dignified, it was rather painful thanpleasant to him to stoop to the petty matters of every-day existence. Hehad no small affectations, and was not forever asserting that he waswithout ambition; as if that, without which nobody is of much use in theworld either to himself or to others, were a weakness akin to depravity.With brief intervals, covering only a few months altogether, he waswhere he best liked to be, from his entrance upon public life in 1775till he stepped down in 1817 from that political elevation beyond whichthere are no ascending steps. During these forty-two years he found acertain enjoyment in a country home for a little while at a time, but itwas chiefly the enjoyment of needed rest from official labor. The priceof tobacco and the promise of the wheat crop interested him then, butonly as they interested him always as a source of his own income, andas the index to the general prosperity. At the end of a letter uponpolitical matters, he announces with satisfaction that his merino ewehas dropped a lamb, and both mother and offspring are as well as couldbe expected; but it was probably Mr. Jefferson's gratification ratherthan his own that he had in mind, for it was Mr. Jefferson who hadimported the sheep. Again, in a similar letter, he takes a littleremaining space to express a hope that Mr. Jefferson may permit the useof the rams of that flock to improve the breed of the native stock; not,apparently, that he cared so much about wool as that he wished to show acourteous and friendly interest in one of Mr. Jefferson's many projectsfor the improvement of things generally.It was probably during the year of comparative leisure after he leftCongress that Mr. Madison built his house at Montpellier, though somequestion has been raised on this point. He certainly was building ahouse at that time, and it is not likely that he ever employed himselfin that way more than once. Scattered among discussions of Alien andSedition Laws, the war in Europe, free goods in neutral ships, and otherpublic topics, are brief allusions to lathing nails which he dependedupon Mr. Jefferson to supply; that gentleman having recently set up amachine for their manufacture, which, however, like a good many other ofhis contrivances, seems to have had a hitch in it. So also he asks theVice-President to see to it that, when the window-glass and the pulleysare forwarded, the "chord" for the latter shall not be forgotten; andorders for other articles, only to be found in Philadelphia, are sent tohis obliging friend. Mr. Jefferson, it is easy to believe, found themrather the most interesting part of the political letters to which theywere appended; and he was quite willing, no doubt, to relieve the tediumof presiding over the Senate by searching through the Market Streetshops for the latest improvements in builders' hardware. To Mr. Monroe,Madison wrote that, as he is sending off a wagon to fetch nails for hiscarpenters, "it will receive the few articles which you have been sogood as to offer from the superfluities of your stock, and whichcircumstances will permit me now to lay in." Evidently he was gettingready to go to housekeeping with his young wife. Monroe's stock ofhousehold goods had been replenished, perhaps by importations fromFrance on his recent return, and he was disposing of his old supplies,by gift or sale, among his neighbors. Madison, at any rate, sends thismodest list of what he would like to have: "To wit, two table-cloths fora dining-room of about eighteen feet; two, three, or four, as may beconvenient, for a more limited scale; four dozen napkins, which will notin the least be objectionable for having been used; and two mattresses."It was not an extravagant outfit, even though it had not been meantfor one of those lordly Virginia homes of which some modern historiansgive us such charming pictures. "We are so little acquainted,"--Mr.Madison continues in that stately way which nothing ever surprised himinto forgetting,--"we are so little acquainted with the culinaryutensils in detail that it is difficult to refer to such by name ordescription as would be within our wants."But pots and kettles,--though that may not be the name they were knownby in Virginia,--table-cloths and mattresses, however moderate innumber, are sure indications that the house, which was to be hisresidence when he should be content to retire from public service, wasfinished early in 1798. He had rested long enough, and was busy thatyear in attendance upon the state Assembly at Richmond, to which heconsented the next year to be returned as a member. Perhaps it wasbecause he could not keep longer out of the fray. Perhaps he felt calledto a special duty. Affairs, foreign and domestic, were in a criticalcondition. France, in her resentment at the Jay treaty, had committed somany fresh outrages upon American commerce; had so exasperated theAmerican people by these outrages; and, by refusing to receive theministers from the United States, had so insulted them and thegovernment they represented in the proposed arrangements,--disclosed inthe X. Y. Z. correspondence,--that all friendly relations between thetwo countries had ceased, and it had seemed impossible that war could beavoided.For a while the popular sympathy was entirely with Mr. Adams'sadministration, and the promise could hardly be fairer that theFederalists, if they managed wisely, might remain in power and besustained by the whole country. But in some respects they were as unwiseas in others they were unfortunate. President Adams, though possessingmany great qualities, was of too irascible and jealous a temper to be asuccessful leader or a good ruler. But there were other men ofdistinction among the Federalists who were hardly less fond of havingtheir own way than the President was of having his. The incompatibilityof temper was not altogether on one side in that family quarrel. But allwere equally responsible for such a blunder as the enactment of theAlien and Sedition Laws. The provocation, it is true, was unquestionablygreat. Refugees from abroad had crowded to the United States, many ofwhom were professional agitators, and some were very sorry vagabonds.Whatever reason they might have had for fomenting discontent withgovernment in England or in France, there was nothing to justify anysuch violent measures in this country. But from their conduct aspolitical partisans, particularly as newspaper editors, they soon cameto be looked upon by the Federalists--for they all joined the otherparty--as a dangerous class. There grew up a feeling that it would bewiser for civil affairs to remain, in city, state, and nation, in thehands of those who were born and educated under republicaninstitutions, and not to fall altogether under control of those who werealien in blood and religion, and who were inclined to look uponpolitics, not in the light of the citizen's duty to the common weal, butas an easy and profitable calling where the least scrupulous scoundrelcould gather the largest share of spoils. It may be that the authors ofthose laws were so determined to forestall the apprehended evils of sucha dispensation because use had not accustomed them, as it has latergenerations of American citizens, to live under it in humility if notcontent. Or, perhaps, they wanted that profound faith of our time thatthe longer this subversion of government is submitted to, the easier itwill be to get back to the rule of the honest and wise.But, at any rate, whatever their reasons, they meant by these lawsrelating to aliens to put the acquirement of citizenship under morestringent regulations, and to check the growth and promulgation ofseditious doctrines. If it be true, as is sometimes maintained with someplausibility, that citizens, to be intrusted with self-government,should be endowed with a certain degree of intelligence and virtue, thenthe aim of the framers of the laws, in the first case, was a good one;and, in the second case, the country has had some experience in latertimes which tends to show that they were not altogether wrong inbelieving that doctrines and practices which may lead to insurrectionand civil war might best be met, so far as is possible, at the outset.Nevertheless, the laws, under the circumstances of the time, wereill-considered and injudicious. For one reason, they put an efficientweapon into the hands of the opposition at a moment when it was at aloss where to turn for one. "Anglicism" and "British gold" wereblunderbusses which, in the present popular irritation against France,had for a time lost their usefulness, and were apt to miss fire. But anappeal to a generous and impulsive people on behalf of the unfortunaterefugees, who had fled from the tyranny of the Old World to find libertyand a home in the New, was sure to be listened to. A good many, besidesthose who assumed that republicanism and the rights of man were in theirspecial keeping, believed that an unfortunate class had been dealt withhastily, and even cruelly. The clamor, once begun, told heavily againstthe Federalists. They could be denounced now, not only as the enemies ofliberty in France, but as refusing it to men of any nation or any racewho should seek it in the United States,--it being, of course,understood that races of black or yellow complexion need not apply. Itwas, indeed, advanced as an argument against one of the acts,--whichgave the President power to order out of the country all aliens whosepresence he thought dangerous,--that it might be used to prevent theimportation of persons from Africa. On this point Mr. Gallatin, a nativeof Switzerland, was exceedingly anxious lest there be a violation ofthe Constitution. But the outrage upon the rights of man hereapprehended was the right of white men to make black men slaves.Against the enactment of these laws Mr. Jefferson did nothing asVice-President. But whatever was his motive for official inaction, itwas not because he approved them. He wrote the Kentucky "resolutions of'98,"--the strongest protest that could be made against them, and to bethenceforth held by nullifiers and secessionists as their covenant offaith. But he acted secretly, taking counsel only with George Nicholasof Kentucky and William C. Nicholas of Virginia (brothers), and,Hildreth says, "probably with Madison." The resolutions were to beoffered in the Kentucky legislature by George Nicholas, and, with somemodifications, were passed by that body in November. A year afterwardother resolutions were passed to reassert the opinions of the previoussession, and to record against the laws the "solemn protest" of thelegislature; and further declaring "that a nullification by thosesovereignties [the States] of all unauthorized acts done under color ofthat instrument [the Constitution] is the rightful remedy." In theresolutions which Mr. Jefferson had prepared for Nicholas the yearbefore, this essential doctrine is found in that portion which Nicholashad omitted, in these words,--"where powers are assumed which have notbeen delegated, a nullification of the act is the rightful remedy." Asoriginally prepared, the resolutions were found in Jefferson'shandwriting after his death. Hildreth's conjecture that Madison, as wellas the brothers Nicholas, was consulted in the preparation of theseresolutions, rests only on circumstantial evidence. The Kentuckyresolutions were passed in November; those of Virginia in December; theformer were written by Jefferson, the latter by Madison; and thedoctrines in each are essentially the same. It would have been aperfectly natural thing for the two friends to consult together upon ameasure of so much importance; there is no reason why they should nothave done so; and these coincidences suggest that they probably did.Jefferson clearly shirked the responsibility of an act which he knewwould endanger the Union; but Madison made no secret, so far as can beseen now, of his going to Richmond, though not a member of the Assembly,apparently for the express purpose of writing these resolutions andurging their adoption. But Jefferson was not a man of courage even indoing that which he believed to be wise. In Madison it was only theconscience that was timid; and having once convinced himself that thething he proposed to do was right, he was always ready to face theconsequences. It may be that neither of them foresaw that the realimportance of this particular act was rather prospective than immediate;and if so, their conduct is to be measured by its instant purpose. IfJefferson meant then and there to dissolve the Union, or even toweaken the constitutional bond that held it together, he was notovercautious in keeping out of sight. But if Madison's intention was tostrengthen the Union by withstanding what he believed to be a perilousviolation of the Constitution, then his courage, though it is to becommended, is not to be wondered at. That, he said, was his motive, andto defend the resolutions and his own part in regard to them was thechief interest and serious labor of the latter years of his life. He waselected a member of the Assembly for the session of 1799-1800, probablybecause he and his friends thought his official presence desirable whenthe subject should again come up for consideration at the reading of thereplies from other States, to all which the resolutions had been sent.The report on those replies was also written by him, and the positiontaken the year before was therein reaffirmed, explained, and elaboratedat length.In 1827-28 the doctrines of nullification and of secession were assumedto be the legitimate corollary of the Kentucky and Virginia resolutionsof 1798 and 1799. Jefferson was dead; but Madison felt called upon todeny, in his own defense and the defense of the memory of his friend,that there was any similarity between them. From 1830 to 1836 his mindseems to have been chiefly occupied with this subject, upon which hewrote many letters, and a paper of thirty pages, entitled "OnNullification," which bears the date of 1835-36, the latter year beingthe last of his life. He resents the charge of any politicalinconsistency in the course of his long career, and most of all such aninconsistency as would impugn his attachment to the Constitution and theUnion. The resolutions of 1798, he maintains, do not and were not meantto assert a right in any one State to arrest or annul an act of thegeneral government, as that is a right that can only belong to themcollectively. Nullification and Secession he denounces as "twinheresies," that "ought to be buried in the same grave." "A politicalsystem," he declares, "which does not contain an effective provision fora peaceable decision of all controversies arising within itself would bea government in name only." He asserts that "the essential differencebetween a free government and governments not free is that the former isfounded in compact, the parties to which are mutually and equally boundby it. Neither of them, therefore, can have a greater right to break offfrom the bargain than the other or others have to hold them to it.... Itis high time that the claim to secede at will should be put down by thepublic opinion." What,--he writes to another friend,--"what can be morepreposterous than to say that the States, as united, are in no respector degree a nation, which implies sovereignty, ... and on the otherhand, and at the same time, to say that the States separately arecompletely nations and sovereigns?... The words of the Constitution areexplicit, that the Constitution and laws of the United States shall besupreme over the Constitution and laws of the several States; supreme intheir exposition and execution, as well as in their authority. Without asupremacy in these respects, it would be like a scabbard, in the hand ofa soldier, without a sword in it." Abraham Lincoln might have said thistwenty-eight years later when he determined that his first duty asPresident was to suppress insurrection.Such is the drift of the many pages Mr. Madison wrote upon the subjectduring the last five or six years of his life. He looked then, whateverhe may have thought in the closing years of the preceding century, uponthe United States as a nation, and not as a confederacy having its partsheld together only by "a treaty or league" called a constitution. Buthis object is to show that there is nothing inconsistent in theresolutions of 1798 with these opinions upon the sovereignty of theUnited States; that he held them just as strongly then as he held themnow; and that they, and he as their author, looked to the States as awhole, not to a single State, to find and apply a remedy, in aconstitutional way, for an unconstitutional measure of which anadministration of the government might be guilty. His position ismaintained with all the acuteness, ingenuity, and logical skill whichmark his earlier writings. There is no sign of failure of mental power,of which those accused him who could not answer him. Such an imputationhe resented with as much indignation as he did a charge ofinconsistency, which here could only mean falsehood. There is nopossibility, then, of misunderstanding his opinions during the last sixyears of his life; and the world has no right to doubt his repeated andearnest assurances that these were his opinions when he wrote theresolutions of 1798. It can only be said that the construction he gavethem thirty years afterward is opposed to the universal understanding ofthem at the time they were written.But if his defense of himself be considered complete, it is not evenspecious when presented on behalf of Jefferson. Mr. Madison wrote in1830: "That the term 'nullification' in the Kentucky resolutions belongsto those of 1799, with which Mr. Jefferson had nothing to do.... Theresolutions of 1798, drawn by him, contain neither that nor anyequivalent term." It was not then generally known, whether Mr. Madisonknew it or not, that one of the resolutions and part of another whichJefferson wrote to be offered in the Kentucky legislature in 1798 wereomitted by Mr. Nicholas, and that therein was the assertion alreadyquoted,--"where powers are assumed which have not been delegated, anullification of the act is the rightful remedy." The next year, whenadditional resolutions were offered by Mr. Breckenridge, this idea, insimilar though not in precisely the same language, was presented in thewords, "that a nullification by those sovereignties [the States] of allunauthorized acts, done under color of that instrument, is the rightfulremedy." In 1832, this fact, on the authority of Jefferson's grandsonand executor, was made public; and, further, that another declaration ofMr. Jefferson's in the resolution not used was an exhortation to theco-States "that each will take measures of its own for providing thatneither these acts nor any others of the general government, not plainlyand intentionally authorized by the Constitution, shall be exercisedwithin their respective territories." All this must have been known toMr. Madison then, if not before. Yet, three years later, in that paper"On Nullification" which has been mentioned, he wrote: "The amount ofthis modified right of nullification is, that a single State may arrestthe operation of a law of the United States.... And this newfangledtheory is attempted to be fathered on Mr. Jefferson, the apostle ofrepublicanism." It would be charitable here to believe that there wassome lapse of memory in these latter days, and that he had forgottenthat Jefferson was, above all things, his own words being witness, theapostle of nullification.The Alien and Sedition Laws--of which the more obnoxious of the formerwas never enforced, and the latter expired by limitation in twoyears--had their influence in the presidential election of 1800. But itwas due more to differences between the President and some of theleaders of the Federal party that that party lost its hold upon power,never to be regained. With the election of Jefferson, Madison enteredupon another sphere of duty, which was politically a promotion, butwhere his influence, if it was so large, was not so evident as when anactive leader of his party. It was at Mr. Jefferson's "pressing desire,"Mr. Madison himself says, in a letter written many years afterward, thathe took the office of secretary of state. In the same letter he explainsthat he had declined an executive appointment under Washington, because,in taking a seat in the House of Representatives, he would be lessexposed to the imputation of selfish views in the part he had taken in"the origin and adoption of the Constitution;" because there, ifanywhere, he could be of service in sustaining it against itsadversaries, especially as it was, "in its progress, encountering trialsof a new sort in the formation of new parties attaching adverseconstructions to it." The latter reason seems to be one of those happyafter-thoughts which public men not unfrequently flatter themselves willanticipate a question they would prefer should not be asked. Mr. Madisonwas a member of the First Congress from the first day it met, before thenew Constitution had encountered new trials from new parties by anyconstructions either one way or the other.CHAPTER XVISECRETARY OF STATEOn the morning of March 4, 1801, Mr. Jefferson tied his horse to thefence and walked alone into the Capitol to take the oath of office asPresident. Mr. Madison was not present at that perfunctory ceremony, thedeath of his aged father detaining him at home. He soon after, however,assumed the duties of the station to which Mr. Jefferson had called him,and there he remained till he took the presidential office, in his turn,eight years afterward.The new dynasty entered upon its course under happy circumstances. Therewas, of course, much to fear from the condition of affairs in Europe;for the United States must needs be in a perilous position so long asthe struggle for supremacy continued between France and England, andthat would be while Napoleon could command an army. But the danger ofwar with France was no longer imminent, since Mr. Adams had wiselyre?stablished friendly relations, though many of the leading Federalistsbelieved it was at the cost of ruin to his own party. Englishaggressions upon American commerce had for the moment ceased, asfourteen years afterward they ceased altogether, when the provocationdisappeared with the permanent establishment of peace in Europe. In thetemporary lull of the tempest the sun shone out of a serene sky, and theland was blessed with quiet and prosperity. "Peace, commerce, and honestfriendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none," thePresident said in his inaugural address, were among "the essentialprinciples of our government, and consequently those which ought toshape its administration." The condition of the country was in accordwith the thought and may even have suggested it. "We are allRepublicans; we are all Federalists," said Jefferson in his inaugural:it was meant, however, as an avowal of a tolerant belief in thepatriotism of both parties, rather than, as has sometimes been supposed,an assertion that party lines, so clearly drawn in the election, were atlength obliterated. But hardly a year had passed before this seemed tobe almost literally true. One after another, States hitherto Federal,both at the North and at the South, went over in their state electionsto the Republican or Democratic party; till, with the exception ofDelaware, there was not a single Federal State outside of New England;and even in that stronghold one State, Rhode Island, had marched offwith the majority. "Everywhere," wrote Madison in October, "the progressof the public sentiment mocks the cavils and clamors of the malignantadversaries of the administration."If it may not be asserted that this overthrow of the Federal rule wasfortunate at that juncture,--as nothing is more idle in history thanspeculation upon what might have been,--it may at least be said thatJefferson's administration for his first four years was a happy one forhis country and acceptable to his countrymen. None since Washington'shas ever been so popular; and no other, except Lincoln's, has ever beenso successful. Nor can it be said of it that it was a happy periodbecause it is without a history; for it included acts of moment,accepted then with an approbation and enthusiasm which time hasjustified. Not less shallow is that view of his character and of thoseyears of his administration, taken by many of his contemporaries, whoneither loved nor respected him, and who attributed his success and hispopularity to his good fortune. This was a favorite and easy way, amonghis political opponents, of explaining a disagreeable fact. Parton notesin his Life that C. C. Pinckney could only understand Jefferson's holdupon public confidence as "the infatuation of the people." John QuincyAdams said: "Fortune has taken a pleasure in making Jefferson's greatestweaknesses and follies issue more successfully than if he had beeninspired with the profoundest wisdom." "When the people," saidGouverneur Morris, "have been long enough drunk, they will get sober;but while the frolic lasts, to reason with them is useless." There hasbeen more than one occasion of late years, and in more than one place,where this may be truly said of popular political enthusiasm; but it wasnot true of that which prevailed for the first four years of thiscentury; and Mr. Adams's sarcasm can hardly fail to recall the fact thatwhen Mr. Jefferson, in his second term, was really guilty of a greatfolly in adhering to a prolonged embargo, it was Mr. Adams who committedone of the few follies of his own life in abandoning his party to givehis support to the President's blunder.Though there were many changes in Mr. Jefferson's cabinet in the courseof eight years, they were not the result of dissensions. Yet he was,perhaps, more an absolute President than any other man who has ever heldthat position. He sought and listened to counsel, no doubt; but takingit was another matter. He certainly did not take it if it did not suithim; and if it was not likely to suit him, he was in no hurry to ask forit. It was in his own fertile brain, not in the suggestions of others,that important measures had their birth. That trait in his characterwhich phrenologists have named secretiveness largely governed hisactions. It was natural for him to bring things about quietly andskillfully by setting others to do what he wanted done, without himselfbeing seen, though sometimes there was no other motive than the meregratification of secretiveness. He preferred often to suggest measuresquietly to congressmen rather than to Congress, though the result ineither case might be the same. At other times, where the end to beattained was of great importance and he was absolutely sure only ofhimself, he boldly took the responsibility, as he did in the purchase ofLouisiana, and in the suppression of the Monroe-Pinckney treaty withEngland in his second term. It is not surprising, therefore, thatMadison's part, during the eight years of Jefferson's presidency, isfound to be more a secondary one than is usual with a secretary ofstate, or than was usual with him. He was in perfect accord with hischief, who held always in the highest esteem his knowledge and judgment,and sought, no doubt, his sound and moderate advice when he thought heneeded advice from anybody. But Madison's influence is less visible inJefferson's administration than in Washington's, when he was in theopposition. Washington, where he doubted his own ability to decide aquestion and felt the need of enlightenment, was accustomed to call inMadison, though he did not always accept his friend's conclusions. Itwas rarely that Jefferson was troubled with any doubt of his ownjudgment in the discussion or decision of any question that might comebefore him.The most important measure of his administration was peculiarly his own,and when once determined upon it was pushed to a conclusion with vigorand courage. Nobody doubts now, or has doubted since the abolition ofslavery, that the purchase of Louisiana was an act of soundstatesmanship. Jefferson did not foresee that the acquisition of thatfertile territory would stimulate a domestic trade in slaves, asprofitable to the slave-breeding as to the slave-consuming States; orthat, as slavery increased and brought prosperity and power to a class,there would grow up an oligarchy, resting on ownership in negroes,which, within sixty years, would have to be uprooted at an enormouscost. But his aim was to secure the peaceful possession of theMississippi territory on both its banks, as a permanent settlement of aquestion which, so long as it remained open, was a perpetual menace ofwar with one or another European power. That danger would always involvethe possibility of the Appalachian range becoming the western boundaryof the United States; in which case the valley of the Mississippi, andthe vast region west of it, would fall into the power of an alienpeople. So far was plain to Mr. Jefferson; but the result of therebellion of 1861 proves that he was wiser than he knew when he acquiredthe territory stretching to the Sabine and the foot of the RockyMountains for the occupation of a free people.It is not necessary to repeat here the story of the purchase. The newsof it reached Washington in July and was received with enthusiasm. Thatthere was no warrant in the Constitution for an acquisition of territoryby purchase was manifest; and Mr. Jefferson's opponents were not in theleast backward in heaping reproaches and ridicule upon the greatchampion of strict construction, who had no hesitation in violating theConstitution when it seemed to him wise to do so. Both the President andhis secretary frankly met the accusation by acknowledging its entirejustice; but at the same time they put in, as a sufficient defense, theplea of the general welfare. This did not abate the ridicule, though theargument was a hard one for the Federalists to withstand; for it couldnot be forgotten that it was on this ground that Hamilton, as secretaryof the treasury, had justified the imposition of certain taxes, and theRepublicans had maintained that the plain limitations of theConstitution could not be overstepped on such a plea, even for thegeneral good. Jefferson was so sensitive to this constitutionalobjection that he proposed to meet it by an amendment to theConstitution; but it was soon evident that the unwritten law of manifestdestiny did not need the appeal to the ballot-box. "The grumblers,"Jefferson wrote to a friend soon after the news of the treaty wasreceived, "gave all the credit of the acquisition to the accident ofwar." "They would see," he added, in records on file, "that though wecould not say when war would arise, yet we said with energy what wouldtake place when it should arise." He only meant by this, probably, thatfrom the beginning of his administration he had been prepared to takeadvantage of circumstances when war should break out again betweenEngland and France, as it was evident enough to the whole world that itmust break out sooner or later. That the particular conjunction ofcircumstances, however, would occur that did occur, could not have beenforeseen. Jefferson could have had no prescience that Spain wouldreconvey Louisiana to France; that Napoleon would enter at once uponextensive preparations for colonization on the banks of the Mississippi;and that he would be willing to relinquish this important step in hisgreat scheme of a universal Latin Empire, that he might devote himselfto the necessary preliminary work of subduing his most formidable enemyof the rival race. But it is Jefferson's best title to fame that he wasready to take advantage of this conjunction of incidents at exactly theright moment. Doubtless the progress of civilization would have beenessentially the same had he never been born. But having been born itfell to him to contribute largely to the events that have distributedthe race speaking the English tongue the most widely over the globe, andto exercise a powerful influence upon the age. It does not detract fromthe merit of his act, however, that he by no means saw all itsimportance, nor even dreamed of its consequences. The region beyond theMississippi, he thought, might be made useful as a refuge for Indiantribes of the East; but he neither saw nor could see then that thepurchase of Louisiana was the essential though only the preliminary steptoward the occupation of the continent to the Pacific by the Englishrace. The expedition of Lewis and Clarke, which he sent out the nextyear, was in the interest of science, and especially of geography,rather than of any possible settlement of that distant region. Indeed,he said that if the new acquisition of territory were wisely managed, soas to induce the eastern Indians to cross the great river, the resultwould be the "condensing, instead of scattering, our population." But"man proposes and God disposes."The immediate consequences, however, of the acquisition of Louisianawere enough to bring almost universal popularity to the President,especially at the South and West, without any revelation of the future.Nor was the act the less popular because it was an immediate stimulus tothe foreign slave trade, partly because at the North that excited butlittle interest, and partly because at the South it excited a greatdeal. The abolition societies, it is true, asked that the importation ofslaves from Africa into the annexed territory should be forbidden; andan act was passed prohibiting their introduction, except by thosepersons from other parts of the United States who intended to be actualsettlers, and were, therefore, permitted to bring slaves importedprevious to 1798. But the law might properly have been entitled An Actfor the Encouragement of the Trade in Negroes; and so it seems to havebeen regarded by the older slave States. South Carolina reopened thetrade to Africa, and, as Congress failed to levy the constitutional taxof ten dollars a head, the raw material, so to speak, came in free. Therest could be safely left to the law of supply and demand. NeitherSouth Carolina nor any other State had imported slaves since 1798. Thewhole slave population, therefore, could be legally taken into Louisianaby actual settlers, and its place supplied in the old States by newimportations. The demand regulated the supply, and the supply came fromAfrica as truly as if the importation had been direct to New Orleans.This was the legal course of trade till 1808; thenceforward itflourished, without the protection of law but in spite of it, so long asit was profitable,--so long, that is, as the natural increase of theeastern negro was insufficient to answer the demand of the south-westernmarket.But, besides the peaceful extension of the national domain, there wasmuch else in the first four or five years of Jefferson's administrationto commend it to his countrymen. His party had nothing to complain of,despite that genial and generous assurance of the inaugural which couldnot be forgotten,--"we are all Republicans; we are all Federalists;" andthe other party had reason to be thankful that, considering, as he said,"a Federalist seldom died, and never resigned," the number was not largewho were reminded, by their removal from office, of their unreasonabledelay in doing either the one thing or the other. It was only thepoliticians, however, a class much smaller then than it is now, who wereconcerned in such matters; the people at large were influenced by otherconsiderations. Credit was given to the President for things that hedid not do, as well as for things that he did. It was due to him thatthe administration was an economical one, but it was through Mr.Gallatin's skillful management of the finances that the old public debtwas in process of speedy extinction. Occasional impeachments enlivenedthe proceedings of Congress, which otherwise were as harmless as theywere dull. Jefferson was never so much out of his proper element as inwar, yet a successful one was carried on, during his first term, withthe Barbary States which put an end for many years to the exactions andoutrages which had long been needlessly submitted to. It was a war,however, of only a few naval vessels in the hands of such energetic andbrave men, destined to become famous in later years, as Bainbridge,Decatur, Preble, and Barron; and to send off the expedition was aboutall the government had to do with it. It was easy to keep clear of"entangling alliances," or entanglements of any sort with Europeanpowers, so long as they left the commerce of the United States to pursueits peaceful and profitable course without molestation. This bothEngland and France did for several years, and there fell, inconsequence, an immense carrying trade into the hands of Americanmerchants, which brought prosperity to the whole country such as wasnever known before, and was not known again, after it was lost, for neara quarter of a century. All these things made Mr. Jefferson acceptableto the people as almost a heaven-appointed President. If, as JohnQuincy Adams thought, Fortune delighted to beam upon him with hersunniest smiles, he knew, at least, how best to take advantage of them.While they lasted, his secretary of state sat in their light and warmth,quietly and contentedly busy and in the diligent and faithful dischargeof official duty, which could not in those years of prosperoustranquillity be over-burdensome.CHAPTER XVIITHE EMBARGOAlmost at the beginning of his second term, Jefferson found himself introubled waters, as the United States was drawn slowly but surely intothe vortex of European war. The carrying trade at home and abroad hadfallen very much into the hands of Americans, and this became the rootof bitterness. The tonnage of their vessels employed in foreign tradeand entered at the custom-houses of the United States was equal tonearly four fifths of the tonnage of British vessels engaged in the sametraffic and entered at home. But there was this difference: the foreigncommerce of Great Britain was almost all carried on from her own ports,and the returns, therefore, showed its full volume. On the other hand,the American ships were largely the carriers between the ports of thebelligerents and of other powers in Europe, and there were no entries atthe American custom-houses of their employment, or that they wereemployed at all. As early as 1804-5, the aggregate value of this foreigntrade in the hands of Americans was probably much larger than thatcontrolled by English merchants; and the former increased to the timeof the promulgation of the Berlin decree of 1806, and the British ordersin council of the next year. Nor was it only that wealth flowed into thecountry as the immediate return from this trade abroad. It stimulatedenterprise and industry at home by the increase of capital; and therewas not only more money to work with, but more to spend. Consequentlythe increase in exports and in imports grew steadily. In 1805, 1806, and1807, about one half the average total exports, something over the valueof twenty million dollars, went to Great Britain alone; and the value ofthe imports from that country for the same period was about sixtymillion dollars a year. Nor did this disproportion, though increasingwith the growing prosperity, represent a general balance of tradeagainst the United States, as one school of political economists wouldinsist it must have done. For the imports were small from other Europeancountries in exchange for American products; and the difference,together with the profits of the carrying trade abroad, was remitted inEnglish manufactures. In other words, the imports from Englandrepresented the returns for all exports to Europe, and the returnsalso--available in the first instance through bills of exchange--of thetrade which had been gained by Americans, and lost by those nationswhose ships the war had driven from the ocean.The British manufacturer had no reason for discontent with this state ofthings. The best market for his goods was constantly improving, and hedid not much care who took them to America. But the English government,and the English merchants who owned ships, looked on with neitherpleasure nor patience. It was impossible not to see that the UnitedStates was fast becoming a great commercial rival. This in itself wasbad enough; but it was the harder to bear when it was remembered--and itcould not be forgotten--that the rivalry came from States so lately inrevolt against England, and that their President at that moment was oneof the most obnoxious of the rebels. Then what did it avail that Englandwas mistress of the seas, if her formidable enemy could laugh at anyeffort of hers to destroy the commerce of France, so long as thatcommerce could be carried on in safety under a neutral flag? If thatflag must be respected, English naval vessels and privateers wouldcruise in vain for prizes, for the merchant ships of any belligerent,not strong enough to protect them, stayed in port. It had not yet cometo be the acknowledged law of nations that free ships make free goods.But nearly the same purpose was answered if the property of belligerentscould be safely carried in neutral ships under the pretense of beingowned by neutrals. The products of the French colonies, for example,could be loaded on board of American vessels, taken to the United Statesand reshipped there for France as American property. England looked uponthis as an evasion of the recognized public law that property ofbelligerents was good prize. Accordingly, when she saw that Frenchcommerce was thus put out of her reach, and that the rival she mostdreaded was growing rich and powerful in the possession of it, shesought a remedy and was not long in finding one.It was denied that neutrals could take advantage of a state of war toenter upon a trade which had not existed in time of peace; and Americanships were seized on the high seas, taken into port, and condemned inthe admiralty courts for carrying enemy's goods in such a trade. Theexercise of that right, if it were one by the recognized law of nations,would be of great injury to American commerce, unless it could besuccessfully resisted. To show that it was not good law, Mr. Madisonwrote his "Examination of the British Doctrine which Subjects to Capturea Neutral Trade not Open in the Time of Peace." The essay was a carefuland thorough discussion of the whole question, and showed by citationsfrom the most eminent writers on international law, by the terms oftreaties, and by the conduct of nations in the past, that the Britishdoctrine was erroneous and would lead to other infringements of therights of neutrals. But argument, however unanswerable, has never yetbrought the British government to reason, unless there was somethingbehind it not so easy to disregard. The appropriation for Mr.Jefferson's gunboats could not get that naval arm ready for effectiveservice much before the year 1815, even if it could then be of use; andthere was, moreover, this further difficulty in the way of itsefficiency at the time,--that, as it could not go to the enemy, it mustwait for the enemy to come to it; the conflagration would have to bebrought to the fire-engines. A war with England must be a naval war; andthe United States not only had no navy of any consequence, but it was apart of Mr. Jefferson's policy, in contrast with the policy of thepreceding administrations, that there should be none, except thesegunboats kept on wheels and under cover in readiness to repel aninvasion. But there was no fear of invasion, for by that England couldgain nothing. "She is renewing," Madison wrote in the autumn of 1805,"her depredations on our commerce in the most ruinous shapes, and haskindled a more general indignation among our merchants than was everbefore expressed."These depredations were not confined to the seizing and confiscatingAmerican ships under the pretense that their cargoes were contraband.Seamen were taken out of them on the charge of being British subjectsand deserters, not only on the high seas in larger numbers than everbefore, but within the waters of the United States. No doubt theseseamen were often British subjects and their seizure was justifiable,provided England could rightfully extend to all parts of the globe andto the ships of all nations the merciless system of impressment to whichher own people were compelled to submit at home. Monroe, in a note toMadison, said that the British minister had informed him that "greatabuses were committed in granting protections" in America, andacknowledged that "he gave me some examples which were most shameful."But even if it could be granted that English naval officers might seizesuch men without recourse to law, wherever they should be found andwithout respect for the flag of another nation, it was a national insultand outrage, calling for resentment and resistance, to impress Americancitizens under the pretense that they were British subjects. But whatwas the remedy? As a last resort in such cases, nations have but one.Diplomacy and legislation may be first tried, but, if these fail, warmust be the final ordeal. For this the administration made nopreparation, and the more evident the unreadiness the less was thechance of redress in any other way. Immediate war would, of course, havebeen unwise; for what could a nation almost without a ship hope from acontest with a power having the largest and most efficient navy in theworld? If this, however, was true from 1805 to 1807, it was not lesstrue in 1812. But it need not have been true when war was actuallyresorted to, had the intervening years been years of preparation. Thefact was, however, that the party which supported the administration wasno more in favor of war at the earlier period than the administrationitself was; and meanwhile, till a war party had come into existence andgained the ascendency, the country had been growing every year less andless in a condition to appeal to war.The first measure adopted to meet the aggressions of the English was anact prohibiting the importation of certain British products. This hadalways been a favorite policy with Madison. He had advanced and upheldit in former years, when a member of Congress, and when Great Britainhad first violated the rights and dignity of the United States byinterference with her foreign trade and by impressing her citizens.Non-intercourse had been an effective measure thirty years before, andhad a kind of prestige as an American policy. It was not seen, perhapscould not be seen without experience, that a measure suited to thecolonial condition was not sufficient for an independent nation. But thePresident and secretary were in perfect accord; for Jefferson preferredanything to war, and Madison was persuaded that England would be broughtto terms by the loss of the best market for her manufactures. Others,and notably John Randolph, saw in the measure only the first step which,if persisted in, must lead to war; while, in the mean time, to interferewith importations would be quite as great an injury to the United Statesas to Great Britain. Randolph was apt to blurt out a good deal of truthwhen it happened to suit him. Impressment, he said, was an old grievancewhich had been thought a sufficient provocation for war when the nationwas not prepared; and it was no more ready to resort to that desperateremedy now than it had been in the past. Without a navy it would beimpossible to prevent the blockading of all the principal American portsby English squadrons. The United States would need an ally, and he wasnot willing she should throw herself into the arms of that power whichwas seeking universal conquest. France, he said, would be the tyrant ofthe ocean if the British navy should be driven from it. The commerce,moreover, which it was proposed to protect, was not the "honest trade ofAmerica," but "a mushroom, a fungus of war,--a trade which, so soon asthe nations of Europe are at peace, will no longer exist." It was only"a carrying trade which covers enemy's property;" and he did not believein plunging a great agricultural country into war for the benefit of theshipping merchants of a few seaports. There were many who agreed withhim; for it was one of the cardinal principles of the Jeffersonianschool of politics that between commerce and agriculture there was anatural antagonism.But the administration did not rely upon legislation alone in thisemergency. The President followed up the act prohibiting theintroduction of British goods by sending William Pinkney to England inthe spring of 1806 to join Monroe, the resident minister, in an attemptat negotiation. These commissioners soon wrote that there was goodreason for hoping that a treaty would be concluded, and thereupon thenon-importation act was for a time suspended. In December came thenews that a treaty was agreed upon, and soon after it was received bythe President. The most serious difficulty in the way of negotiation hadbeen the question of impressment. The British government claimed theright to arrest deserters from its service anywhere outside thejurisdiction of other nations, and that jurisdiction, it was maintained,could not extend beyond the coast limit over the open sea, the highwayof all nations. There was an evident disposition, however, to come tosome compromise. The English commissioners proposed that theirgovernment should prohibit, under penalty, the seizure of Americancitizens anywhere, and that the United States should forbid, on herpart, the granting of certificates of citizenship to British subjects,of which deserters took advantage. But as this would be anacknowledgment virtually of the right of search on board American ships,and the denial of citizenship in the United States to foreigners, theAmerican commissioners could not entertain that proposition. They werewilling, however, if the assumed right to board American ships weregiven up, to agree, on behalf of their government, to aid in the arrestand return of British deserters when seeking a refuge in the UnitedStates. But to this the British commissioners would not accede.Monroe and Pinkney were enjoined, in the instructions written by thesecretary of state, to make the abandonment of impressment the firstcondition of a treaty. A treaty, nevertheless, was agreed upon, withoutthis provision. But when it was sent to the President, the ministersexplained:--     "That, although this government [the British] did not feel at     liberty to relinquish, formally, by treaty, its claim to search our     merchant vessels for British seamen, its practice would     nevertheless be essentially, if not completely, abandoned. That     opinion has since been confirmed by frequent conferences on the     subject with the British commissioners, who have repeatedly assured     us that, in their judgment, we were made as sure against the     exercise of their pretension by the policy which their government     had adopted in regard to that very delicate and important question,     as we could have been made by treaty."These assurances did not satisfy the President. Without consulting theSenate, though Congress was in session when the treaty was received, andalthough the Senate had been previously informed that one had beenagreed upon, the President rejected it. On several other points it wasnot acceptable; but, as Mr. Madison wrote to a friend, "the case ofimpressments particularly having been brought to a formal issue, andhaving been the primary object of an extraordinary mission, a treatycould not be closed which was silent on that subject." Thecommissioners, therefore, were ordered to renew negotiations. This theyfaithfully tried to do for a year, but were finally told by the Britishminister that a treaty once concluded and signed, but afterward rejectedin part by one of the contracting powers, could not again be taken upfor consideration. The opponents of the administration made the most ofthis action of Mr. Jefferson. The country was not permitted to forget,even were forgetfulness possible, that thousands of seamen had beentaken from American vessels, and that the larger proportion of thesewere native-born citizens of the United States. Not that these opponentswanted war; that, they believed, would be ruinous without a navy, andtherefore some reasonable compromise was all that could be hoped for.But what was to be thought of an administration that would not go to warbecause it was not prepared; would not prepare in the hope that somefuture conjunction of circumstances would stave off that last resort;and, meanwhile, would accept no terms which might at least mitigate theinjuries visited upon the sea-faring people of the United States, andpossibly relieve the nation from an insolent exercise of power which itwas not strong enough to resent?As England's need of seamen increased, the captains of her cruisers,encouraged by the failure of negotiation, grew bolder in overhaulingAmerican ships and taking out as many men as they believed, or pretendedto believe, were deserters. In the summer of 1807 an outrage wasperpetrated on the frigate Chesapeake, as if to emphasize the contemptwith which a nation must be looked upon which only screamed like a womanat wrongs which it wanted the courage and strength to resent, or thewisdom to compound for. The Chesapeake was followed out of the harborof Norfolk by the British man-of-war Leopard, and when a few miles atsea, the Chesapeake being brought to under the pretense that the Englishcaptain wished to put some dispatches on board for Europe, a demand wasmade for certain deserters supposed to be on the American frigate.Commodore Barron replied that he knew of no deserters on his ship, andthat he could permit no search to be made, even if there were. Aftersome further altercation the Englishman fired a broadside, killing andwounding a number of the Chesapeake's crew. Commodore Barron could donothing else but surrender, for he had only a single gun in readinessfor use, and that was fired only once and then with a coal from thecook's galley. The ship was then boarded, the crew mustered, and fourmen arrested as deserters. Three of them were negroes,--two natives ofthe United States, the other of South America. The fourth man, probably,was an Englishman. They were all deserters from English men-of-war lyingoff Norfolk; but the three negroes declared that they had been kidnaped,and their right to escape could not be justly questioned; indeed, theEnglish afterward took this view of it apparently, for the men werereleased on the arrival of the Leopard at Halifax. But the fourth manwas hanged.For this direct national insult, explanation, apology, and reparationwere demanded, and at the same time the President put forth aproclamation forbidding all British ships of war to remain in Americanwaters. Of how much use the latter was we learn from a letter of Madisonto Monroe: "They continue to defy it," he wrote, "not only by remainingwithin our waters, but by chasing merchant vessels arriving anddeparting." Some preparation was made for war, but it was only to callupon the militia to be in readiness, and to order Mr. Jefferson'sgunboats to the most exposed ports. Great Britain was not alarmed. Thecaptain of the Leopard, indeed, was removed from his command, as havingexceeded his duty; but a proclamation on that side was also issued,requiring all ships of war to seize British seamen on board foreignmerchantmen, to demand them from foreign ships of war, and if the demandwas refused to report the fact to the admiral of the fleet. It was nottill after four years of irritating controversy that any settlement wasreached in regard to the affair of the Chesapeake.New perils all the while were besetting American commerce. In November,1806, Napoleon's Berlin decree was promulgated, forbidding theintroduction into France of the products of Great Britain and hercolonies, whether in her own ships or those of other nations. This wasin violation of the convention between France and the United States, ifit was meant that American vessels should come under the prohibition;but for a time there was some hope that they might be excepted. In thecourse of the year, however, it was officially declared in Paris thatthe treaty would not be allowed to weaken the force of a war measureaimed at Great Britain. Under this decision, cargoes already seized wereconfiscated and the trade of the United States faced a new calamity. Thedecree, it was declared, was a rightful retaliation of a British orderin council of six months before, which had established a partialblockade of a portion of the French coast. In the kidnaping business,France could not, of course, compete with England; for there were few ofher citizens to be found on board of American vessels, and to seize aYankee sailor, under the pretense that he was a Frenchman, was anabsurdity never thought of. But hundreds of Americans, the crews ofships seized for violation of the terms of the Berlin decree, werethrown into French prisons. So far, therefore, as the United States hadgood ground of complaint on any score against either power, there waslittle to choose between them. Mr. Jefferson's repugnance to war wassufficient to hold him back from one with England, though he might havehad France for an ally; still more unwilling was he, by a war withFrance, to make a friend of England, whom he still looked upon as thenatural enemy of the United States; for, notwithstanding all that hadcome and gone, he still regarded France with something of the oldaffection. In the autumn of 1807 he called a special session of Congressin consideration of the increasing aggressions of Great Britain,especially in the attack upon the Chesapeake, and the injury done by theinterdiction of neutral trade with any country with which that powerwas at war. But he had no recommendations to offer of resistance noreven of defense, except that some additions be made to the gunboats, andthat sailors on shore be enrolled as a sort of gunboat militia. Theprobable real purpose of calling the extra session, however, appeared inabout two weeks, when he sent a special message to the Senaterecommending an embargo.An act was almost immediately passed which, if anything more was neededto complete the ruin of American commerce, supplied that deficiency. Amonth before this time the English ministry had issued a new order incouncil--the news of which reached Jefferson as he was about to send inhis message--proclaiming a blockade of pretty much all Europe, andforbidding any trade in neutral vessels unless they had first gone intosome British port and paid duties on their cargoes; and withintwenty-four hours of the President's message recommending the embargo,Napoleon proclaimed a new decree from Milan, by which it was declaredthat any ship was lawful prize that had anything whatever to do withGreat Britain,--that should pay it tribute, that should carry itsmerchandise, that should be bound either to or from any of its ports.All that these powers could do to shut every trading vessel out of allEuropean ports was now done; and at this opportune moment Mr. Jeffersoncame to their aid by compelling all American vessels to stay at home. Itis not easy in our time to conceive of a President proposing, or of aparty accepting, or of the people submitting to, such a measure as this.But Mr. Jefferson's followers were very obedient, and there was,undoubtedly, a very general belief that trade with the United States wasso important to the nations at war that for the sake of its renewal theobnoxious decrees and orders in council would soon be repealed. But,except upon certain manufacturers in England, little influence wasvisible. General Armstrong, the American minister in France, wrote:"Here it is not felt; and in England, amid the more recent andinteresting events of the day, it is forgotten." When, however, theeffect was evident at home of a law forbidding any American vessels fromgoing to sea, even to catch fish, and prohibiting the export of any ofthe products of the United States, either in their own ships or those ofany other country, then there arose a popular clamor for the abandonmentof a policy so ruinous. Within four months of its enactment, JosiahQuincy of Massachusetts declared, in a debate in Congress, that "anexperiment such as is now making was never before--I will not saytried--it never before entered into the human imagination. There isnothing like it in the narrations of history or in the tales of fiction.All the habits of a mighty nation are at once counteracted. All theirproperty depreciated. All their external connections violated. Fivemillions of people are engaged. They cannot go beyond the limits ofthat once free country; now they are not even permitted to thrust theirown property through the grates." While American ships at home were keptthere, those which had remained abroad to escape the embargo were met bya new peril. Some of them were in French ports awaiting a turn inaffairs; others ventured to load with English goods in English ports, tobe landed in France under the pretense, supported by fraudulent papers,that they were direct from the United States or other neutral country.The fraud was too transparent to escape detection long, and Napoleonthereupon issued, in the spring of 1808, the Bayonne decree authorizingthe seizure and confiscation of all American vessels. They were eitherEnglish or American, he said; if the former, they were enemy's ships andliable to capture; but if the latter, they should be at home, and he wasonly enforcing the embargo law of the United States, which she ought tothank him for.The prosperity and tranquillity which marked the earlier years ofJefferson's administration disappeared in its last year. Congress, bothin its spring and winter sessions, could talk of little else but thedisastrous embargo; proposing, on the one hand, to make it the morestringent by an enforcement act, and, on the other, to substitute for itnon-intercourse with England and France, restoring trade with the restof the world, and leaving the question of decrees and orders in councilopen for future consideration. The President no longer held his partyunder perfect control. The mischievous results of the embargo policywere evident enough to a sufficient number of Republicans to secure inFebruary, 1809, the repeal of that measure, to take effect the nextmonth as to all countries except England and France, and, with regard tothem, at the adjournment of the next Congress. But the prohibition ofimportation from both these latter countries was continued till theobnoxious orders in council and the decrees should be repealed.CHAPTER XVIIIMADISON AS PRESIDENTMr. Jefferson named his own successor. Of the three Democraticcandidates, Madison, Monroe, and George Clinton, he preferred Madisonnow, and urged Monroe to wait patiently as next in succession. Beyondtwo lives he did not, perhaps, think proper to dictate; and, besides,Clinton was not a Virginian. What little opposition there was to Madisonin his own party came from those who feared that he was too thoroughlyidentified with Jefferson's policy to untie the knot in which theforeign relations of the country had become entangled. Of the 175electoral votes, however, he received 122; but that was fewer by 39 thanhad been cast for Jefferson four years before. Of the New EnglandStates, Vermont alone gave him its votes, changing places with RhodeIsland, which had wheeled into line again with the Federalists.During the winter of 1808-9, after Madison's election but before hisinauguration, he had quietly conferred with Erskine, the Britishminister at Washington, upon the condition of affairs. Much was hopedfrom these conferences; but the end which they helped to bring aboutwas the reverse of what was hoped for. Could Madison have had his way,he would probably have preferred that Congress should have leftuntouched at that session the questions of embargo and non-intercourse;for the tone of the debates and the tendency of legislation naturallyled the English ministry to doubt the assurances which Erskine gave thatthese proceedings did not truly represent the friendly disposition ofthe incoming President. In answer to those representations, however,there came in April from Canning, the foreign secretary, certainpropositions which were so presented by Erskine, and so received by theadministration, as to promise a settlement of all differences betweenthe two governments. Erskine was a young man, anxious very likely fordistinction; but a laudable ambition to be of service in a good causemade him over-zealous. He exceeded the letter of his instructions, whilekeeping, as he thought, to their spirit. Probably he mistook theirspirit in assuming that his government cared more to secure a settlementof existing difficulties than for the precise terms and minor details bywhich it should be reached. At any rate, he agreed that Great Britainwould withdraw her orders in council provided the United States wouldmaintain the non-intercourse acts against France so long as the Berlinand Milan decrees remained in force. This being secured, he did notinsist upon two other conditions--partly because it was represented tohim that they would need some action by Congress, and partly because hebelieved that the essential point was gained by an agreement on the partof the United States to enforce non-intercourse against France while herdecrees were unrepealed. These other conditions were, first, that theUnited States should cease to insist upon the right to carry on in timeof war the colonial trade of a belligerent which had not been open intime of peace to neutrals; and, second, the acknowledgment that Britishmen-of-war might rightfully seize American merchant vessels whentransgressing the non-intercourse laws against France. He also proposeda settlement of the Chesapeake question, but omitted to say, as Canninghad instructed him to say, that some provision would be made, as an actof generosity and not of right, for the wives and children of the menwho were killed on board that ship. But when that settlement wasaccepted by the administration, he failed to resent some reflectionsfrom Robert Smith, the secretary of state, on the conduct of GreatBritain in that affair, which Canning, when he heard of them, thoughtshould have been resented and their recall demanded, or the negotiationstopped.On the terms, however, as Erskine chose to present them, an agreementwas reached, and the President issued a proclamation repealing the actsof embargo and non-intercourse as against Great Britain and her coloniesafter June 10. On that day more than a thousand ships, loaded andriding at anchor in all the principal ports in anxious readiness forthe signal for flight, spread their wings, like a flock oflong-imprisoned birds, and flew out to sea. There was an almostuniversal shout of gratitude to the new President, who, in the firstthree months of his administration, had banished the fear of war abroad,and at home was sweeping away involuntary idleness, want, and ominousdiscontent. Madison had known something of popularity during his longcareer; but never before had he felt the exultation of riding upon thevery crest of a mighty wave of popular applause. But it was one of thosewaves that collapse suddenly into a surprising flatness. Canningrepudiated all that Erskine had done and immediately recalled him. Theships that had gone to sea, under the sanction of the President'sproclamation, were permitted by an order in council to complete theirvoyages unmolested; but otherwise all commerce was once more brought toa standstill. It would have been easier to bear some fresh misfortunethan to be compelled to struggle again with calamities so wellunderstood and which it was hoped had been left behind forever. Gallatinhad been retained in the Treasury Department and was the President'schief adviser, and the two were now accused of having been eitherimbecile or treacherous. It was openly said that they had led the youngminister to agree to an arrangement which they knew his government wouldnot sanction. But they could hardly have been so foolish as to make abargain with the certainty that it would stand only so long as a shipcould go and come across the Atlantic. Nobody understood better thanMadison how grateful a reconciliation with England would be to a largeproportion of the people, and nobody was more disappointed that thenegotiations came to worse than nothing, inasmuch as their failure ledto new embarrassments.He said with some bitterness, in a letter to Jefferson, early in August:"You will see by the instructions to Erskine, as published by Canning,that the latter was as much determined that there should be noadjustment as the former was that there should be one." He was unjust toCanning; the real fault was with Erskine, and with him only because hiszeal outran his judgment. In another letter to Jefferson, the Presidentsays: "Erskine is in a ticklish situation with his government. I suspecthe will not be able to defend himself against the charges of exceedinghis instructions, notwithstanding the appeal he makes to sundry othersnot published. But he will make out a strong case against Canning, andbe able to avail himself much of the absurdity and evidentinadmissibility of the articles disregarded by him." Possibly Mr.Erskine considered that his government would approve of his not urgingthese points too earnestly, inasmuch as the other side refrained frominsisting upon the abandonment of impressment of seamen on boardAmerican ships. But Mr. Madison's indignation must have covered up agood deal of mortification. He could hardly have been without thesensation of one hoisted by his own petard. It was only two years sinceMr. Jefferson, with his approval, had rejected the Monroe-Pinkney treatybecause instructions had not been literally complied with. Mr. Canning,in following that example, could have pleaded, had he chosen, much thestronger justification, under the circumstances of the two cases; andMr. Madison could not fail to remember, without being reminded of it,when this agreement was thrown back in his face, that he had beenwilling to accept it without any protection of the rights of Americanseamen, the want of which was the ostensible reason for rejecting theMonroe-Pinkney treaty.However, the administration was now compelled to meet anew the olddifficulties which the Erskine agreement had failed to dispose of. ThePresident's first duty was to issue a second proclamation, recalling theprevious one which had sent to sea every American ship in port. Theycould all come back, if they would, to be made fast again at theirwharves, till the recurrent tides at last should ripple in and out oftheir open seams, and their yards and masts drop piecemeal upon therotting decks. But many never came back, preferring rather the risk ofbeing sunk or burned at sea, which happened to not a few, or of captureand confiscation by the belligerents whose laws they defied. Erskine wasfollowed by a new ambassador from England, Mr. Jackson. His mission,however, had no other result than to widen the breach between the twonations. A controversy almost immediately arose between the minister andMr. Smith, the secretary of state,--or rather Mr. Madison himself, who,as he complained at a later period, did most of Smith's work as well ashis own,--touching the arrangement with Erskine. Jackson intimated, orwas understood as intimating, that the administration must have knownthe precise terms on which Erskine was empowered to treat with thegovernment of the United States; and when a denial was made with a gooddeal of emphasis on the part of the administration, the insinuation wasrepeated almost as a direct charge. Of course there could be but oneconclusion to correspondence of this sort; further communication withJackson was declined and his recall asked for.It was plain enough in the latter months of Jefferson's administration,to himself as well as to everybody else, that the embargo had not onlyfailed to bring the belligerents to terms abroad, but that it had addedgreatly to the distress at home. That the measure was a failure, Madisonhimself acknowledged in one of his retrospective letters written in theretirement of Montpellier, sixteen years afterward. It was meant, hesaid in that letter, as an experimental measure, preferable to nakedsubmission or to war at a time when war was inexpedient. It failed, headded, "because the government did not sufficiently distrust those in acertain quarter whose successful violation of the law led to the generaldiscontent, which called for its repeal." That is to say, the governmentrelied too confidently upon the submission of New England; was too readyto believe that her merchants would not let their ships slip quietly outto sea whenever they could evade the officers of the customs, nor slipin to land a cargo at some unfrequented place where there was nocustom-house. "The patriotic fishermen of Marblehead," he says, "at onetime offered their services;" and he regrets they were not sent out asprivateers to seize these contraband ships as prizes, and to "carry theminto ports where the tribunals would enforce the law." Apparently therewas not a reasonable doubt in his mind whether such tribunals could befound in any port along the coast of New England. It is also rather morethan doubtful--even assuming that there was much of the kind ofpatriotism which he says existed in Marblehead--how long, had thegovernment offered commissions to private citizens to prey upon theirneighbors, the embargo would have been respected at all east of LongIsland Sound. But this was the afterthought of 1826. Madison's policy in1809-10 was rather to conciliate than provoke "those in a certainquarter." He could not command entire unanimity even in his own party.Congress passed the winter in vain efforts to find some common ground,not merely for Democrats and Federalists, but for the Democrats alone.Various measures were proposed to meet the critical condition of thecountry. Some were too radical; some not radical enough; and none wereso acceptable that it was not easy to form combinations for theirdefeat. All were agreed that the non-importation act must be got rid of;but the difficulty was to find a way to be rid of it so that the nationshould at once maintain its dignity, assert its rights, and escape awar. The President would have preferred that all British and Frenchships be excluded from American ports, and that importations from bothcountries should be prohibited except in American vessels; and a bill tothis effect was one of several that was defeated in the course of thesession. But at last, in May (1810), an act was passed excluding onlythe men-of-war of both nations, but suspending the non-importation actfor three months after the adjournment of Congress. The President wasthen authorized, when the three months were passed, to declare the actagain in force against either Great Britain or France, should thecommercial orders or decrees of either nation be continued in forcewhile those of the other were repealed.If the aim of the dominant party had been to devise a scheme sure tolead to fresh complications more difficult to manage than any that hadgone before, it could not have hit upon a better one than this.Hitherto, in all the perplexities and anxieties of the situation, thegovernment had, at least, kept its relations to other powers in its ownhands, to conduct them, whether wisely or unwisely, in its own way. Itcould resent or submit to encroachments upon the commerce of thecountry, as seemed most prudent; it could close or open the ports, asseemed most judicious; or it could join forces with that one of its twoenemies whose alliance promised to secure respect on the one hand, andcompel it on the other. But now it had tied itself up in a knot ofprovisos. It would do something if England would do something else, orif France would do something else. If the proposition was accepted byEngland and was not accepted by France, then the United States wouldremain in friendly relations with England, and assume by comparison anunfriendly attitude toward France; and if France accepted the conditionand England declined it, then the situation would be reversed. Nothingwould be gained in either case that might not have been gained by directnegotiation, and, no doubt, on better terms. But if the proposition nowoffered should be disregarded by both powers, the situation would beworse than before. This evidently was Madison's view of the question. Hewrote to Pinkney, the minister at the Court of St. James, a month afterthe act was passed: "At the next meeting of Congress, it will be found,according to present appearances, that instead of an adjustment witheither of the belligerents, there is an increasing obstinacy in both;and that the inconveniences of embargo and non-intercourse have beenexchanged for the greater sacrifices, as well as disgrace, resultingfrom a submission to the predatory system in force." Not that he wantedwar; his faith in passive resistance was still unshaken; embargo andnon-intercourse he was still confident would, if persisted in longenough, surely bring the belligerents to terms. But as to this act, heweighs the chances as in a balance. In England some impression may bemade by the prices of cotton and tobacco,--"cotton down at ten or elevencents in Georgia; and the great mass of tobacco in the same situation."He has, however, no "very favorable expectations." But as to France, heevidently is not without hope that she will be wise enough to see that"she ought at once to embrace the arrangement held out by Congress, therenewal of a non-intercourse with Great Britain being the very speciesof resistance most analogous to her professed views." But he was clearlynot sanguine.If that was his wish, however, it was gratified. Napoleon did takeadvantage of the act, but in such a way as to reverse the relativepositions of the two nations by seizing for France and taking from theUnited States the power or the will to dictate terms. The Frenchminister, Champagny, announced in a letter merely, in August, therevocation of the Berlin and Milan decrees from the 1st of the followingNovember; and, a day or two after, such new restrictions were imposedupon American trade, by prohibitory duties and a navigation act, aspretty much to ruin what little there was left of it. The revocation ofthe edicts, moreover, was coupled with the conditions that Great Britainshould not only recall her order in council, but renounce her "newprinciples of blockade," or that the United States should "cause theirrights to be respected by the English." Napoleon had in this three endsto gain, and he gained them all: First, to secure France against arenewal of the non-importation act of the United States, if thePresident should accept this conditional recall of the decrees assatisfactory; second, to leave those decrees virtually unrepealed, bymaking their recall depend upon the action of England, who, he wellknew, would not listen to the proposed conditions; and, third, toinvolve the United States and England in new disputes, which might leadto war. Everything turned out as the emperor wished. The Presidentaccepted the conditional withdrawal of the French decrees, as inaccordance with the act of Congress; England refused to recognize acontingent withdrawal as a withdrawal at all; and the result at lengthwas war between England and the United States.The acquiescence of the President in the decision of Napoleon was themore significant inasmuch as Mr. Smith, the secretary of state, hadassured the French government, when a copy of the act of May was sent toit, that there could be no negotiation under the act until anothermatter was disposed of. A decree, issued at Rambouillet in March, 1810,and enforced in May, ordered the confiscation of all American ships thendetained in the ports of France, and in Spanish, Dutch, and Neapolitanports under the control of France. The loss to American merchants,including ships and cargoes, was estimated to be about forty milliondollars. This decree was ostensibly in retaliation of that act ofnon-intercourse passed by Congress more than a year before, and was,therefore, a retrospective law. The non-intercourse act, moreover, hadexpired by its own limitation months before many of these ships wereseized; but all, nevertheless, were confiscated, though some of them hadentered the ports merely for shelter. By order of the President, Smithwrote to Armstrong, the American minister at Paris, that "a satisfactoryprovision for restoring the property lately surprised and seized, by theorder or at the instance of the French government, must be combined witha repeal of the French edicts, with a view to a non-intercourse withGreat Britain; such a provision being an indispensable evidence of thejust purpose of France toward the United States." The injunction wasrepeated a few weeks later; but when the emperor's decision upon thedecrees was announced, in August, the "indispensable" was dispensedwith, and a few months later an absolute refusal of any compensation forthe spoliation under the Rambouillet decree was quietly submitted to.But meanwhile the President, in November, issued a proclamationannouncing that France had complied with the act of the previous May andrevoked the decrees, while the English orders in council remainedunrepealed. But England still had three months, according to the act, inwhich to make her choice between a recall of her orders in council orthe alternative of seeing the American non-intercourse act revivedagainst her. But, it is to be observed, the French minister'sannouncement of the acceptance of the act of May was not made tillAugust, and then the revocation of the decrees was not to take effecttill November. November came bringing with it the President'sproclamation, when it soon appeared that there was still to be "tarryingin the eating of the cake." The decrees were to remain in force at leastthree months longer, till it should be known whether Great Britain wouldcomply with those terms which France--not the United States--made thecondition of revoking the orders in council; and if Great Britain didnot comply, then the French decrees were not revoked. The legality ofthe President's proclamation, of course, was questioned. There was, asJosiah Quincy said in debate in the House, the following February(1811), "a continued seizure of all the vessels which came within thegrasp of the French custom-house, from the 1st of November down to thedate of our last accounts." Other members, not more earnest, were lesstemperate in the expression of their indignation at what, one of themsaid, would be called swindling in the conduct of private affairs;while another declared that the President was throwing the people "intothe embrace of that monster at whose perfidy Lucifer blushed and hellstands astonished." France knew all this while what England's decisionwould be. She was ready to rescind the orders in council when the Frenchedicts were revoked, but she did not recognize a mere letter from theFrench minister, Champagny, to the American ambassador as suchrevocation. The second French condition, that England should abandon her"new principles of blockade" and accept in their place a new Frenchprinciple, was peremptorily rejected by the English ministry. Thatproposition opened a question not properly belonging to an agreementtouching the decrees and orders,--a question of what was a blockade, andwhat could properly be subject to it. Napoleon's doctrine was, not onlythat a paper blockade was not permissible by the law of nations, butthat there could be no right of blockade "to ports not fortified, toharbors and mouths of rivers, which, according to reason and the usageof civilized nations, is applicable only to strong or fortified places."Mr. Emott, a member of the House from New York, said in debate that theUnited States might well be grateful to both England and France, if theywould agree upon this doctrine as good international law; since in thatcase, as there were no fortified places in the United States, she wouldnever be in peril of a blockade. But it was precisely what Englandwould not admit nor even discuss as relevant to an agreement to revokethe orders and decrees.To "this curious gallamatry," as Quincy called it, "of time present andtime future, of doing and refraining to do, of declaration andunderstanding of English duties and American duties," was added anotheringredient of Madison's own devising. The American ministers in Englandand France were instructed that Great Britain would be expected toinclude in the revocation of her orders in council the blockade of aportion of the coast of France, declared in May, 1806; and the Presidentoffered, unasked, a pledge to the French emperor, that this should beinsisted upon. Whether he meant to make it easier for Napoleon andharder for Great Britain to respond to the act of May is a questionimpossible to answer; but the opponents of the policy he was pursuingwere careful to point out that the act of May said nothing whatever,either of this or any other blockade; that when, the year before, theagreement was made with Erskine, the President did not pretend that theorders in council included blockades; and that it was remarkable that heshould forget his own declaration regarding the monstrous spoliation ofa few months before by the French, under the Rambouillet decree, and yetremember this British order of blockade of four years before, whicheverybody else had forgotten. Indeed, so completely had it passed out ofmind, that the American minister in London, Mr. Pinkney, was obliged toask the British foreign secretary whether that order had been revoked orwas still considered as in force. It had never been formally withdrawn,was the answer, though it had been comprehended in the subsequent orderin council of January, 1807. England refused, however, to recallspecifically this blockade of 1806, for that would have been construedas a recognition of Napoleon's right to demand an abandonment of her"new principles of blockade;" but in fact--as the British minister inWashington afterward acknowledged--the recall of the order in council of1807 would have annulled the order of blockade of 1806, which it hadabsorbed.The truth is, the whole negotiation was a trial of skill at diplomaticfence, in which England would not yield an inch to the United States orto France. Madison and his party were more than willing to aid Napoleon;and Napoleon hoped to defeat both his antagonists by turning theirswords against each other. A quite different result would have followedhad France been as willing as England apparently was that the commercialedicts should be considered without regard to other questions; or if theAmerican Executive had insisted that it would accept their unconditionalrevocation, pure and simple and not otherwise, from either power, as wascontemplated in the act of May, 1810. But instead, when Congress rose inMarch, 1811, it left behind it an act renewing non-intercourse withEngland, in accordance with Napoleon's demand that the United Statesshould "cause their rights to be respected by the English." This meantwar.CHAPTER XIXWAR WITH ENGLANDIn May, 1811, there occurred one of those accidents which happen onpurpose, and often serve as a relief when the public temper is in anexasperated and almost dangerous condition. This was the fight betweenthe American frigate President, of forty-four guns, and the Englishsloop-of-war Little Belt, of eighteen guns. This vessel belonged to theBritish squadron which was ordered to the American coast to break up thetrade from the United States to France; and the President was one of thefew ships the government had for the protection of its commerce. Theships met a few miles south of Sandy Hook, chased each other in turn,then fired into each other without any reasonable pretext for the firstshot, which each accused the other of having fired. The loss on boardthe English ship, in an encounter which lasted only a few minutes, wasover thirty in killed and wounded, while only a single man was slightlywounded on board the President. It was, as Mr. Madison said, an"occurrence not unlikely to bring on repetitions," and that these would"probably end in an open rupture or a better understanding, as thecalculations of the British government may prompt or dissuade from war."This certainly was obvious enough; though it would be a great dealeasier for England to bring on a war than to avert it, in the angry moodin which the majority of the Democratic party then was. But Mr. Madisonpreserved his equanimity. Considering his old proclivity for France, andhis old dislike of England, his impartiality between them is ratherremarkable. But his aim was still to keep the peace while he abatednothing of the well-founded complaints he had against both powers. Whena new Congress assembled in the autumn he was careful to point out inhis message the delinquencies of France as well as the offenses ofEngland. He insisted that while England should have acknowledged theBerlin and Milan decrees to be revoked and have acted accordingly,France showed no disposition to repair the many wrongs she had inflictedupon American merchants, and had lately imposed such "rigorous andunexpected restrictions" upon commerce that it would be necessary,unless they were speedily discontinued, to meet them by "correspondingrestrictions on importations from France."This tone is even more pronounced in his letters for some followingmonths. If anything, it is France rather than England that seems to belooked upon as the chief offender, with whom there was the greaterdanger of armed collision. A fortnight after Congress had assembled hewrote to Barlow, the new minister to France, that though justified inassuming the French decrees to be so far withdrawn that a withdrawal ofthe British orders might be looked for, "yet the manner in which theFrench government has managed the repeal of the decrees, and evaded acorrection of other outrages, has mingled with the conciliatory tendencyof the repeal as much of irritation and disgust as possible." "In fact,"he adds, "without a systematic change from an appearance of craftycontrivance and insatiate cupidity, for an open, manly, and uprightdealing with a nation whose example demands it, it is impossible thatgood-will can exist; and that the ill-will which her policy aims atdirecting against her enemy should not, by her folly and iniquity, bedrawn off against herself." French depredations upon American commercein the Baltic were "kindling a fresh flame here," and, if they were notstopped, "hostile collisions will as readily take place with one nationas the other;" nor would there be any hesitation in sending Americanfrigates to that sea, "with orders to suppress by force the French andDanish depredations," were it not for the "danger of rencounters withBritish ships of superior force in that quarter."By this time, however, Congress, under the lead of younger, vigorousmen--chief among them Clay and Calhoun--panting for leadership anddistinction, was beginning its clamor for war with England. How muchrespect had Madison for this movement, and how much faith in it? Aletter to Jefferson of February 7 answers both questions. Were he notevidently amused, he would seem to be contemptuous. "To enable theExecutive to step at once into Canada," he says, "they have provided,after two months' delay, for a regular force requiring twelve to raiseit, and after three months for a volunteer force, on terms not likely toraise it at all for that object. The mixture of good and bad, avowed anddisguised motives, accounting for these things, is curious enough, butnot to be explained in the compass of a letter." This is not the tone ofeither hope or fear. If war was in his mind at that time, it was not warwith England. Three weeks later he writes to Barlow at Paris. On variouspoints of negotiation between that minister and the French government,he observes much that "suggests distrust rather than expectation." Hecomplains of delay, of vagueness, of neglect, of discourtesy, of adisregard of past obligations as to the liberation of ships and cargoesseized, and of late condemnations of ships captured in the Baltic; andconcerning all these and other grievances he says: "We find so little ofexplicit dealing or substantial redress mingled with the compliments andencouragements, which cost nothing because they mean nothing, thatsuspicions are unavoidable; and if they be erroneous, the fault does notlie with those who entertain them." He believed that France, in askingfor a new treaty, which he thinks unnecessary, is only seeking to gaintime in order to take advantage of future events. The commercialrelations between the two countries are so intolerable that trade "willbe prohibited if no essential change take place." Unless there beindemnity for the great wrongs committed under the Rambouillet decree,and for other spoliations, he declares that "there can be neithercordiality nor confidence here; nor any restraint from self-redress inany justifiable mode of effecting it." The letter concludes with theemphatic assertion that, if dispatches soon looked for "do not exhibitthe French government in better colors than it has yet assumed, therewill be but one sentiment in this country; and I need not say what thatwill be."Congress all this while was lashing itself into fury against England.The ambitious young leaders of the Democratic party in the House were,so to speak, "spoiling for a fight," and they chose to have it out withEngland rather than with France. Not that there was not quite as muchreason for resentment against France as against England. Some, indeed,of the more hot-headed were anxious for war with both; but these were ofthe more impulsive kind, like Henry Clay, who laughed in scorn at thedoubt that he could not at a blow subdue the Canadas with a fewregiments of Kentucky militia. But war with England was determined upon,partly because the old enmity toward her made that intolerable which tothe old affection for France was a burden lightly borne; and partlybecause the instinctive jealousy of the commercial interest, on the partof the planter-interest, preferred that policy which would do the mostharm to the North. On April 1, 1812, just five weeks after the writingof this letter to Barlow, Mr. Madison sent to Congress a message of fivelines recommending the immediate passage of an act to impose "a generalembargo on all vessels now in port or hereafter arriving for the periodof sixty days." It was meant to be a secret measure; but the intentionleaked out in two or three places, and the news was hurried North byseveral of the Federalist members in time to enable some of theirconstituents to send their ships to sea before the act was passed. Nor,probably, was it a surprise to anybody; for war with England had beenthe topic of debate in one aspect or another all winter, and the purposeof the party in power was plain to everybody. That the embargo wasintended as a preparation for war was frankly acknowledged. An act wasspeedily passed, though the period was extended from sixty to ninetydays. Within less than sixty days, however, another message from thePresident recommended a declaration of war. On June 3 the Committee onForeign Relations, of which Calhoun was chairman, reported in favor of"an immediate appeal to arms," and the next day a declaratory act waspassed. Of the seventy-nine affirmative votes in the House, forty-eightwere from the South and West, and of the other thirty-one votes from theNorthern States, fourteen were from Pennsylvania alone. Of theforty-nine votes against it, thirty-four were from the Northern States,including two from Pennsylvania. On the 17th, a fortnight later, thebill was got through the Senate by a majority of six.Mr. Madison for years had opposed a war with England as unwise anduseless,--unwise, because the United States was not in a condition to goto war with the greatest naval power in the world; and useless, becausethe end to be reached by war could be gained more certainly, and atinfinitely less cost, by peaceful measures. The situation had notchanged. Indeed, up to within a month of the message recommending anembargo as a precursor of war, his letters show that, if he thought warwas inevitable, it must be with France, not England. But the factiondetermined upon war must have at their command an administration tocarry out that policy. Their choice was not limited to Madison for anavailable candidate. Whoever was nominated by the Democrats was sure tobe chosen, and Madison had two formidable rivals in James Monroe,secretary of state, and De Witt Clinton, mayor of New York, both eagerfor war. The choice depended on that question and between the embargomessage of April 1 and the war message of June 1, the nomination wasgiven to Madison by the congressional caucus. It was understood, andopenly asserted at the time by the opponents of the administration,that the nomination was the price of a change of policy. At the nextsession of Congress, before a year had passed away, Mr. Quincy said inthe House: "The great mistake of all those who reasoned concerning thewar and the invasion of Canada, and concluded that it was impossiblethat either should be seriously intended, resulted from this, that theynever took into consideration the connection of both those events withthe great election for the chief magistracy which was then pending. Itwas never sufficiently considered by them that plunging into a war withGreat Britain was among the conditions on which the support for thepresidency was made dependent." The assertion, so plainly aimed atMadison, passed unchallenged, though the charge of any distinct bargainwas vehemently denied.If Mr. Madison's conscience was not always vigorous enough to enable himto resist temptation, it was so sensitive as to prompt him to look forexcuses for yielding. In a sense this was to his credit as one of thebetter sort of politicians, without assuming it to be akin to thathypocrisy which is the homage vice pays to virtue. Perhaps it was thissentiment which led him to accept so readily the pretended disclosuresof John Henry, and to make the use of them he did. These were containedin twenty-four letters, for which the President, apparently withouthesitation, paid fifty thousand dollars. On March 9 he sent them toCongress with a message, and on the same day, in a letter to Jefferson,alludes to them as "this discovery, or rather formal proof of theco?peration between the Eastern Junto and the British cabinet." In themessage he intimates that this secret agent was sent directly by theBritish government to Massachusetts to foment disaffection, to intrigue"with the disaffected for the purpose of bringing about resistance tothe laws, and eventually, in concert with a British force, of destroyingthe Union" and reannexing the Eastern States to England. In the warmessage of June 1 these charges are repeated as among the reasons for anappeal to arms. Mr. Calhoun's committee followed this lead and improvedupon it in the report recommending an immediate declaration of war. TheHenry affair was declared an "act of still greater malignity" than anyof the other outrages against the United States of which Great Britainhad been guilty, and that which "excited the greatest horror." Theincident was seized upon, apparently, to answer a temporary purpose, andthen, so far as Mr. Madison was concerned, was permitted to sink intooblivion. In the hundreds of pages of his published letters, written inlater life, in which he reviews and explains so many of the events ofhis public career, there is no allusion whatever to the Henrydisclosures, which in 1812 were held, with the ruin of American commerceand the impressment of thousands of American citizens, as an equallyjust cause for war. In truth there was nothing whatever in thesedisclosures, for which was paid an amount equal to the salary of half apresidential term, to warrant the assumptions of either Mr. Madison'smessages or Mr. Calhoun's report. The man had been sent, at his ownsuggestion, early in 1809, by the governor of Canada to Massachusetts tolearn the state of affairs there and observe the drift of publicopinion. His national proclivity--he was an Irishman--to conspiracy andrevolution had led him to see in the dissatisfaction with the embargo adetermination in the New England people to destroy the Union, reannexthemselves to England, and return to the flesh-pots of the colonialperiod. To learn how far gone they were in these designs, to put himselfin intimate relations with the leading conspirators and to bring theminto communication with Sir James Craig, the governor-general of Canada,that sufficient aid should come through him at the proper moment fromthe British government, was Henry's mission. Of this truly Irish plotHenry was the villain and Craig the fool; but it is hardly possible thatthree years afterward Madison and his friends, with all the lettersspread before them, could really have been the dupes.Henry went to Boston and remained there about three months, living at atavern. He found out nothing because there was nothing to be found out.He knew nobody, and nobody of any note knew him, and all the informationhe sent to Craig might have been, and doubtless was, picked up in theordinary political gossip of the tavern barroom, or culled from thecolumns of the newspapers of both parties. He compromised nobody,for--as Mr. Monroe, as secretary of state, testified in a report to theSenate--he named no person or persons in the United States who had, "inany way or manner whatever, entered into or countenanced the project orviews" of himself and Craig; and all he had to say was pointless andunimportant, except so far as his opinions might have some interest asthose of a shrewd observer of public events. Indeed, his own conclusionwas that there was no conspiracy in the Eastern States; that the Federalparty was strong enough to keep the peace with England; and that therewas no talk of disunion, nor any likelihood of it unless it should bebrought about by war. The correspondence itself showed, in a letter fromRobert Peel, then secretary to Lord Liverpool, that the letters of Henrywere found, as a matter of course, among Canadian official papers, asthey related to public affairs; but they had either never attracted anyattention or had been entirely forgotten, and Lord Liverpool was quiteignorant of any "arrangement or agreement" that had been made betweenthe governor of Canada and his emissary to New England. It was onlybecause of his failure to get any reward from the British government orfrom Craig's successor in Canada, for what he was pleased to call hisservices, that the adventurer came to Washington in search of a marketfor himself and his papers. He came at an opportune moment.Notwithstanding the secretary of state frankly declared, that neither bywriting nor by word of mouth did the man implicate by name anybody inthe United States; notwithstanding one of the letters was evidence, themore conclusive because incidental, that the British secretary of statehad known nothing of this mission contrived between Henry andCraig,--yet Mr. Madison pronounced the letters to be the "formal proofof the co?peration between the Eastern Junto and the British cabinet."The charge was monstrous, for this pretended proof had no existence. Ifthe President, however, could persuade himself that the story was true,it would help him to justify himself to himself for a change of policy,the result of which would be the coveted renomination for thepresidency.Not that there had never been talk of disunion in New England. There hadbeen in years past, as there was to be in years to come. But talk ofthat kind did not belong exclusively to that particular period, nor wasit confined to that particular region of country. Ever since theadoption of the Constitution the one thing that orators, North andSouth, inside the halls of Congress and outside them, were agreed uponwas, that in all debate there was one argument, equally good on bothsides, to which there could be no reply; that in all legislation therewas one possible supreme move that would bring all the wheels ofgovernment to a dead stop. The solemn warning or the angry threat wasalways in readiness for instant use, that the bonds of the Union, in oneor another contingency, were to be rent asunder. But so frequent hadbeen these warning cries of the coming wolf that they were listened towith indifference, except when some positive act indicated real danger,as in the Jefferson-Madison "resolutions of '98." It was easy,therefore, to alarm the public with confessions of a secret emissary, ashe pretended, who had turned traitor to the government which hademployed him and to the conspirators to whom he had been sent; and themore reprehensible was it, therefore, in a President of the UnitedStates, to make the use that was made of this story, which an impartialexamination would have shown was essentially absurd and infamouslyfalse. Mr. Madison's intelligence is not to be impugned. He was toosagacious, as well as too unimpassioned a man, to be taken in by theingenious tale of such an adventurer as Henry. In a letter to ColonelDavid Humphreys, written the next spring, in defense of the policy ofcommercial restrictions, he says: "I have never allowed myself tobelieve that the Union was in danger, or that a dissolution of it couldbe desired, unless by a few individuals, if such there be, in desperatesituations or of unbridled passions." New England, he continues, "wouldbe the greatest loser by such an event, and not likely thereforedeliberately to rush into it." "On what basis," he asks, "could NewEngland and Old England form commercial stipulations?" Their commercialjealousy, he contends, forbade an alliance between them, for that was"the real source of our Revolution." He closes with the significantassertion that, "if there be links of common interest between the twocountries, they would connect the Southern and not the Northern Stateswith that part of Europe." How, then, could he seriously accept Henry'spretended disclosures as "formal proof," as he wrote to Jefferson atthat time, "of the co?peration between the Eastern Junto and the Britishcabinet"? By the Eastern Junto is meant the Federal party, or at leastthe influential and able leaders of that party; and he could notconsider, nor would he have spoken of them as "a few individuals, ifsuch there be, in desperate situations or of unbridled passions." Heaccepted, then, the Henry story in spite of his deliberate opinions, asa help to involve the country in a party war.Even at the risk of some prolixity it is needful to follow the course ofevents that led to this war a little farther; for here was theculmination of Mr. Madison's career, and from his course in shaping anddirecting these events we best learn what manner of man he was, andwhere his true place is among the public men of our earlier history. Fora year and a half the United States had acted on the assumption thatFrance had recalled her decrees, and that England had not revoked herorders. The extracts from Mr. Madison's letters, given on previouspages, show his conviction that the revocation of either decrees ororders was practically no more true of one power than it was of theother. The government of the United States, nevertheless, submitted tothe one, and against the other it first re?nacted the non-intercourseact, then proclaimed an embargo preparatory to war, and finally declaredwar. Yet the whole world knew, and nobody so surely as the emperor ofFrance, that the Berlin and Milan decrees had never been formallyrepealed at all; meanwhile French outrages upon American commerce hadcontinued, and all redress so persistently refused that, so late as thelast week in February, 1812, the President intimated that war--war withFrance, not England--might prove the only remedy. But he suddenlyyielded to the clamors of the war party at home, whatever may have beenhis motive. Then, and not till then, were the decrees actually revokedby Napoleon. In May, 1812, more than a month after the President hadrecommended an embargo, the hostile purport of which was so wellunderstood, a decree was proclaimed by the emperor which for the firsttime really revoked those of Berlin and Milan. True, it wasdated--"purported to be dated," it was said in an official Englishdocument--April, 1811. But that was of no moment; the essential pointwas, that it had never seen the light; that any hint of its existencehad never been given to the American government, or its representativesabroad, till the United States had taken measures to "cause their rightsto be respected by the English," which was the original condition of arevocation of the decrees. Its ostensible date was when the news reachedFrance that non-intercourse had been again enforced against England inMarch, 1811; but its promulgation was to all intents and purposes thereal date, when news reached France, in April or May, 1812, that waragainst England was finally determined upon.The Duke of Bassano, the French minister, had not, moreover, brought outthis year-old decree without pressure from the American minister,Barlow. The President had written Barlow, in that February letteralready quoted, that if his expected dispatches did not "exhibit theconduct of the French government in better colors than it has yetassumed, there will be but one sentiment in this country, and I need notsay what that will be." When the dispatches came, Mr. Madison receivedno assurances of redress for past wrongs and no promises for the future;but he learned, on the contrary, that Bassano, in a recent report to theemperor, had referred to the decrees of Berlin and Milan as still inforce against all neutral nations which submitted to the seizure oftheir ships by the British when containing contraband goods or enemy'sproperty. Naturally the British ministry was not slow in presenting thisprecious acknowledgment to the United States as a proof that she had allalong been in the wrong, and that in common justice to England thenon-importation act should now be repealed. The assurance was at thesame time repeated, possibly in a tone of considerable satisfaction,that when Napoleon really should revoke his decrees Great Britain wasready, as she always had been, to follow his example with her orders. Itwas an awkward dilemma for the President and his minister to France. Butby this time, the Presidential nomination impending, Mr. Madison hadmade up his mind what to do. He was not exactly a wolf; neither wasGreat Britain a lamb; but the argument he used was the argument of thefable. Instead of advising--Bassano having declared the decrees still inforce--a repeal of the non-importation act, as Great Britain claimed wasin justice and comity her due, he recommended a war measure. But Barlowevidently felt himself to be under some decent restraint of logic andconsistency. He urged upon the French minister the necessity now of apositive and imperial declaration that the decrees, so far as regardedthe United States, were absolutely revoked; for this recent assertion ofBassano, that they were still in force, put the United States in anattitude both towards France and England utterly and absurdly in thewrong. Barlow represented that, should the revocation be extended onlyto the United States, Great Britain would not for that alone repeal herorders. In that case France would lose nothing of the advantage of herpresent position, while everything would be lost should the UnitedStates be compelled to repeal her non-importation laws against England.Bassano was quick to see the necessity of jumping into the bramble-bushand scratching his eyes in again, and he then produced his year-oldedict. Being a year old, it of course covered all questions. But was ita year old? Who knew? It had never been published? No, the duke said;but it had been shown to Mr. Jonathan Russell, who at that time wascharg? d'affaires at Paris. Mr. Russell denied it, though a denial washardly needed. He would not have ventured to withhold information soimportant from his government; and it was evident, from the tone of hisdispatches of a subsequent date, that he had no suspicion of itsexistence. For he had maintained it, as a point of "national honor,"that the revocation of the French decrees must have preceded thePresident's proclamation of November 1, 1810; and this he would not havedared to do had he known that the actual revocation by the Frenchminister was not made till six months after the date of the President'sproclamation, and was then made secretly.However, as if to defeat all these machinations of France and the UnitedStates, Great Britain immediately recalled her orders in council, when,in May, 1812, the Duke of Bassano announced the edict of April, 1811,revoking the Berlin and Milan decrees, though so far only as theyconcerned American vessels. The declaration of war of June 18 had notreached England, and there was still a chance for peace. Foster, thelate English minister to the United States, learned at Halifax--where hehad stopped on his way home--that the orders in council were repealed,and he took immediate steps to bring about an armistice between thenaval commanders on the coast of Nova Scotia, and between the governorof Canada and the American general, Dearborn, in command of thefrontier. The government at Washington, however, refused to ratify anysuspension of hostilities. Some negotiations followed, but, decrees andorders being out of the way, there was nothing left to negotiate aboutexcept the question of impressment. Upon that question the twogovernments were as wide apart as ever, and not in the least likely tocome together. Mr. Madison determined that on that ground alone the warshould go on. It had been as good and sufficient ground for such a warany time for the past dozen years; but whether it could be settled by anappeal to arms was a question of possibilities and probabilities bywhich both Jefferson and Madison had hitherto been ruled. Was that stillthe essential question? With the result came the answer. Two years laterthe administration was glad to accept a treaty of peace in whichimpressment was not even alluded to. Great Britain did not relinquish bya syllable her assumed right to board American ships in search ofBritish seamen; and the administration instructed its peacecommissioners not even to ask that she should.CHAPTER XXCONCLUSIONEarly in the war Mr. Madison said to a friend, in a letter "altogether_private_ and written in confidence," that the way to make the conflictboth "short and successful would be to convince the enemy that he was tocontend with the whole and not part of the nation." That it was a war ofa party, and not of the people, was a discouragement to himself, howeverthe enemy may have regarded it, which he could never see any way ofovercoming. He could not listen to an opponent nor learn anything fromdisaster. "If the war must continue," said Webster within a year of itsend, "go to the ocean. Let it no longer be said that not one ship offorce, built by your hands since the war, yet floats. If you areseriously contending for maritime rights, go to the theatre where thoserights can be defended.... There the united wishes and exertions of thenation will go with you. Even our party divisions, acrimonious as theyare, cease at the water's edge.... In protecting naval interests bynaval means, you will arm yourself with the whole power of nationalsentiment, and may command the whole abundance of national forces."Taking now in one view the events of those years, it is easy to see inour generation how mad were Madison and his party to turn deaf ears tosuch considerations as these. Their force and wisdom had already beenproved by eighteen months of disaster on land, which had made the wardaily more and more unpopular; and by brilliant success for a time atsea, when each fresh victory was hailed with universal enthusiasm. "Ourlittle naval triumphs," was the President's way of speaking of thelatter; and the only importance he seems to have seen in them was, thatthey excited some "rage and jealousy" in England and moved her toincrease her naval force. How could Mr. Madison expect that the wholeand not a part only of the nation could uphold an administration which,after eighteen months of fighting, could be reproached on the floor ofCongress with not having launched a ship since the war was begun? Or didhe only choose to remember that the navy, which alone so far had broughteither success or honor to the national arms, was the creation of theFederalists in spite of the Jeffersonian policy? It surely would havebeen wiser to try to propitiate New England, with which he was inperpetual worry and conflict, by enlisting it in a naval war in which ithad some faith. A large proportion of her people would have been glad toescape idleness and poverty at home for service at sea, though they werereluctant to aid in a vain attempt to conquer Canada.[Illustration: _Battle of Lake Erie_]Even to that purpose, however, Massachusetts contributed, in the secondcampaign of 1814, more recruits than any other single State; and NewEngland more than all the Southern States together. New England couldhave given no stronger proof of her loyalty, if only Mr. Madison hadknown how to turn it to advantage. He was absolutely deaf and blind toit; but his ears were quick to hear and his eyes to see, when he learnedpresently that the New Englanders were seriously calculating the valueof the Union under such rule as they had had of late. It was not oftenthat he relieved himself by intemperate language, but he could not helpsaying now, in writing to Governor Nicholas of Virginia, that "thegreater part of the people in that quarter have been brought by theirleaders, aided by their priests, under a delusion scarcely exceeded bythat recorded in the period of witchcraft; and the leaders themselvesare becoming daily more desperate in the use they make of it." The"delusion" was taking a practical direction. Mr. Madison had learnedbefore the letter was written that a convention was about to meet atHartford, the object of which was to weigh in a balance, upon the oneside, the continuation of such government as that of the last two orthree years, and, upon the other side, the value of the Union. Heardently hoped that the commissioners, then assembled at Ghent, wouldagree upon a treaty; and there seemed to be no good reason why thereshould not be peace when nothing was to be said of the cause of thewar, no apology demanded for the past, and no stipulation for thefuture. But if by any chance the commissioners should fail, Mr. Madisonsaw in the Hartford Convention the huge shadow of a coming conflict moredifficult to deal with than a foreign war. It was the first step in deadearnest for the formation of a Northern Confederacy, and it is quitepossible he may have felt that he was not the man for such a crisis.Every line of the letter pulsates with anxiety. The only consolingthought in it is that without "foreign co?peration revolt and separationwill hardly be risked," and to such co?peration he hoped a majority ofthe New England people would not consent. A treaty of peace, however,came to save him and the Union. Within a few weeks the administrationpapers were laughing at Harrison Gray Otis of Boston, who had startedfor Washington as the representative of the Hartford Convention, butturned back at the news of peace; and were advertising him as missingunder the name of Titus Oates. It was, however, the hysterical laugh ofrecovery from a terrible fright.If ambition to be a second time President led Mr. Madison to consentagainst his own better judgment to a war with England, he paid a heavypenalty. It was the act of a party politician and not of a statesman;for the country was no more prepared for a war in 1812, when as apolitician he assented to it, than it had been for the previous halfdozen years when as a statesman he had opposed it. He gave the influenceof the United States in support of a despotism that aimed at thesubjugation of all Europe; he threw a fresh obstacle in the way of thatpower to which Europe could chiefly look to resist a common enemy; andhe did both under the pretense that the just complaints of the UnitedStates were greater against one of these powers than against the other.He declared war mainly to redress a wrong which ceased to exist before ablow was struck; he then rejected an offer of peace because anotherwrong was still persisted in; but finally, of his own motion, heaccepted a treaty in which the assumed cause of war was not even alludedto.That Mr. Madison was not a good war President, either by training or bytemperament, was, if it may be said of any man, his misfortune ratherthan his fault. But it was his fault rather than his misfortune that hepermitted himself to be dragged in a day into a line of conduct whichthe sober judgment of years had disapproved. He is usually and mostjustly regarded as a man of great amiability of character; ofunquestionable integrity in all the purely personal relations of life;of more than ordinary intellectual ability of a solid, though notbrilliant, quality; and a diligent student of the science of government,the practice of which he made a profession. But he was better fitted bynature for a legislator than for executive office, and his fame wouldhave been more spotless, though his position would have been lessexalted, had his life been exclusively devoted to that branch ofgovernment for which he was best fitted. It was not merely that for thesake of the Presidency he plunged the country into an unnecessary war;but when it was on his hands he neither knew what to do with it himselfnor how to choose the right men who did know.It is our amiable weakness--if one may venture to say so of the Americanpeople--that all our geese are swans, or rather eagles; that we are aptto mistake notoriety for reputation; that it is the popular belief ofthe larger number that he who, no matter how, has reached adistinguished position, is by virtue of that fact a great and good man.This is not less true, in a measure, of Mr. Madison than of some othermen who have been Presidents, and of still more who have thought thatthey deserved to be. But, if that false estimate surrounds his name,there is a strong undercurrent of opinion, common among those whosebusiness or whose pleasure it is to look beneath the surface of thingshistorical, that he was wanting in strength of character and in courage.He did not lack discernment as to what was wisest and best; but he wastoo easily influenced by others, or led by the hope of gaining someglittering prize which ambition coveted, to turn his back upon his ownconvictions. It was this weakness which swept him beyond his depth intotroubled waters where his struggles were hopeless. Had he refused toassume the responsibility of a war which his judgment condemned, andwhich he should have known that he wanted the peculiar ability to bringto a successful and honorable conclusion, he might never have beenPresident, but his fame would have been of a higher order. History mighthave overlooked the act of political fickleness in his earlier career,which was so warmly resented by many of his contemporaries. Abandonmentof party is too common and often too justifiable to be accounted asnecessarily a crime; and it can rarely be said with positiveness,whatever the probabilities, that a political deserter is certainly movedby base motives. It is rather from _ex post facto_ than from immediateevidence, as in Madison's case, that a just verdict is likely to bereached. But there can be neither doubt nor mistake as to thePresident's management of foreign affairs during the two years precedingthe declaration of war against England; nor of the remarkableincompetence which he showed in rallying the moral and material forcesof the nation to meet an emergency of his own creation.Opposition to war generally and therefore opposition to an army and navywere sound cardinal principles in the Jeffersonian school of politics.Mr. Madison was curiously blind to the logical consequences of thisdoctrine; he could not see, or he would not consider, that, when warseemed advisable to an administration, the result must depend mainlyupon the success of the appeal to the people for their countenance andhelp. But he unwisely sought to raise and employ an army for theinvasion and conquest of the territory of the enemy in spite of theopposition of a large proportion of the wealthiest and most intelligentpeople in the country; while at the same time he refused to see anypromise or any presage in a naval warfare which had opened withunexpected brilliancy, and would, had it been followed up, have beensure of popular support. His title to fame rests, with the multitude,upon the fact that he was one of the earlier Presidents of the republic.But it is that period of his career which least entitles him to beremembered with gratitude and respect by his countrymen.Its crowning humiliation came with the capture of Washington in August,1814, when the British admiral, Cockburn, entered the Hall ofRepresentatives, at the head of a band of followers, and springing intothe speaker's chair shouted: "Shall this harbor of Yankee Democracy beburned? All for it will say, Aye!" Early in the war Madison had writtento Jefferson, "We do not apprehend invasion by land,"--the one thing, itwould seem, that a commander-in-chief should have apprehended, whosesingle aim was the invasion and conquest of the enemy's territory. Hisdevotion to this one purpose, to the exclusion of any other idea ofeither offense or defense, and in spite of continued failure, was almostan infatuation. Within a year of that expression of confidence to Mr.Jefferson the whole coast was blockaded from the eastern end of LongIsland Sound to the mouth of the Mississippi. For a year beforeWashington was taken, the shores of Chesapeake Bay were harassed andraided and devastated by a blockading force, till the people werereduced almost to the condition of a conquered country. Two monthsbefore the British commanders, Ross and Cockburn, went up the Potomac,Mr. Gallatin, who was then in London, had informed the President thatthe fleet was to be reinforced for that very purpose; but neither he norCongress took any effective measures to meet a danger so imminent. Theireyes were fixed with a far-off gaze across the Northern border, whileonly five hundred regular troops, a body of untrained militia who hadnever heard the whistle of a bullet, and a few gunboats on the Potomac,guarded the national capital against a British fleet, a thousandmarines, and thirty-five hundred men from Wellington's best regiments.The President fleeing in one direction with the secretary of war, thesecretary of state, and the general in command; Mrs. Madison fleeing inanother, with her reticule filled with silver spoons snatched up inhaste as she left the White House;[15] behind them all as they fled, thehorizon red with the blaze of the largest navy yard in the country andof all the public buildings, but one, of the capital,--these incidentsare an amazing commentary on the early assertion that invasion was notto be apprehended.The end of this wretched war, which has been foolishly called the secondwar of independence, came four months afterward. Never was a peace sowelcome as this was on all sides. England was exhausted with the longcontest with Napoleon; and now, that being over, as there was nopractical question to differ about with the United States, the ministrywere not unwilling to listen to the demands of the commercial andmanufacturing classes. In America so great was the universal joy thatthe Federalists and the Democrats forgot their differences and theirhates, and wept and laughed by turns in each other's arms and kissedeach other like women. One party was delivered from calamities forwhich, if continued much longer, there seemed only one desperate anddreaded remedy; the other was overjoyed to back out of a blunder whichwas the straight and broad road to national ruin. Of all men, Mr.Madison had the most reason to be glad for a safe deliverance from theconsequences of his own want of foresight and want of firmness. Lessthan two years remained to him of his public career. In that briefperiod much was forgotten and more forgiven--as our national way is--inthe promise of a great prosperity to be speedily achieved in thereleased energies of a vigorous and industrious people. He had not againto choose between differing factions of his own party, nor to carry outa policy against the will of a formidable opposition. To the Federalistshardly a name was left in the progress of events at home and abroad;while all immediate vital questions of difference vanished, the party inpower remained in almost undisputed ascendency. The most importantDemocratic measures it then insisted upon were a national bank and aprotective tariff. To the establishment of a bank Mr. Madison assentedagainst his own conviction that any provision could be found for it inthe Constitution; and a tariff, both for revenue and for the protectionand encouragement of American industry, he agreed with his party was thetrue policy.For nearly twenty years after his retirement to Montpellier--a namewhich, with rare exceptions, he always spelled correctly, and not in theAmerican way--it was his privilege to live a watchful observer of theprosperity of his country. If it ever occurred to him in his secret soulthat at the period of his pre?minence he had done anything to arrestthat prosperity, he gave no sign. He loved rather to remember andsometimes to recall to others the part he had taken in the nurture ofthe young republic in the feeble days of its infancy. Of his ownadministration and the events of that time he had much less to say thanof the true interpretation of the Constitution, of the intent of itsframers, and the circumstances that influenced their deliberations. Hisvoluminous correspondence shows the bent of his mind as a legislator anda student of fundamental law; and on that, rather than on his abilityand success as the chief magistrate of the nation, rests his true fame.These twenty years, though passed in retirement, were not years ofleisure. "I have rarely," he wrote in 1827, "during the period of mypublic life, found my time less at my disposal than since I took myleave of it; nor have I the consolation of finding, that as my powers ofapplication necessarily decline, the demands on them proportionallydecrease." Much as he wrote upon questions of an earlier period, therewere no topics of the current time that did not arouse his interest.Upon the subject of slavery he thought much and wrote much and alwaysearnestly and humanely. How to get rid of it was a problem which henever solved to his own satisfaction. Though it was one he alwayslonged to see through, it never occurred to him that the way to abolishslavery was--to abolish it. How kind he was as a master, Paul Jenningsbears witness. "I never," he says, "saw him in a passion, and never knewhim to strike a slave, though he had over a hundred; neither would heallow an overseer to do it." He rebuked those who were in fault; but,adds Jennings, he would "never mortify them by doing it before others."It will be remembered that on the first occasion of his being acandidate for public office he refused to follow the universal Virginianhabit of "treating" the electors. To the principle which governed himthen he adhered through life, and his letters show the warm interest healways took in every phase of the temperance movement. "I don't think hedrank a quart of brandy in his whole life," says Jennings. A singleglass of wine was all he ever took at dinner, and this he diluted withwater, when, says the same witness, "he had hard drinkers at his tablewho had put away his choice madeira pretty freely." This will go forsomething, considering the times, with even the most zealous of themodern supporters of that cause; but they must be quite satisfied toknow that "for the last fifteen years of his life he drank no wine atall." Consideration for his own health, always feeble, may have led himto this abstinence; but it is rather remarkable that a man of hisposition should have held, fifty years ago, the advanced notions whichhe certainly did upon this question, and that the doubt only of thepossibility of enforcing laws for prohibiting the manufacture and saleof spirits seems to have withheld him from proposing them.Social as well as moral questions he discussed with evident interest andwithout passion or prejudice. Aside from the party meaning of the term,he belonged to that school of democracy, now extinct, which believedthat the highest object of human exertion is to improve man's condition,and to secure to each the rights which belong to all. He did not agreewith Robert Owen as to methods; but neither did he reject his schemes asinevitably absurd because they were new and untried. One would notgather from his correspondence with Frances Wright that this was thenotorious Fanny Wright whom the world chose to consider, as its way is,a disreputable and probably wicked woman, inasmuch as she proposed someradical changes in its social relations which she thought would be again. He gave much attention to popular education, and all the influencehe could command was devoted, through all the later years of his life,to the establishment and well-being of the University of Virginia.Education, he maintained, was the true foundation of civil liberty, andon it, therefore, rested the welfare and stability of the republic. Itis probable that he would have drawn a line at difference of color then,simply because of the difference of condition implied by color. But hemade no such distinction in sex. Sixty-three years ago he saw his wayquite clearly on a question which is a sore trial now to many timidsouls. The capacity of "the female mind" for the highest educationcannot, he said, "be doubted, having been sufficiently illustrated byits works of genius, of erudition, and of science." The capacity, heassumed, carried with it the right. In short, he was ready always toconsider fairly questions relating to the well-being of society whichsince his time have deeply agitated the country; and he approached themall much in the spirit of the reformer who hopes to leave the world alittle better and happier because he has lived in it."Mr. Madison, I think," says Paul Jennings, "was one of the best menthat ever lived." This is the testimony of an intelligent man whoseopportunities of knowing the personal qualities of him of whom he wasspeaking were more intimate than those of any other person could beexcept Mrs. Madison. "He was guilty," says Hildreth, "of the greatestpolitical wrong and crime which it is possible for the head of a nationto commit." One saw the private gentleman, always conscientious andconsiderate in his personal relations to other men; the other judged thepublic man, moved by ambition, entangled in party ties and supposedparty obligations, his moral sense blinded by the necessities ofpolitical compromises to reach party ends. It is not impossible tostrike a just balance between these opposing estimates, though one isthat of a servant, the other that of a learned and judicious historian.Mr. Madison left a legacy of "Advice to My Country," to be read afterhis death and to "be considered as issuing from the tomb, where truthalone can be respected, and the happiness of man alone consulted." It isthe lesson of his life, as he wished his countrymen to understand it."The advice," he said, "nearest to my heart and deepest in myconvictions is, that the Union of the States be cherished andperpetuated. Let the open enemy to it be regarded as a Pandora with herbox opened, and the disguised one as the serpent creeping with hisdeadly wiles into Paradise." The thoughtful reader, as he turns to thefirst page of this volume to recall the date of Mr. Madison's death,will hardly fail to note how few the years were before these open anddisguised enemies, against whom he warned his countrymen, were foundonly in that party which he had done so much, from the time of theadoption of the Constitution, to keep in power.FOOTNOTE:[Footnote 15: Paul Jennings, who was a slave and the body servant of Mr.Madison, says in his _Reminiscences_: "It has often been stated inprint, that when Mrs. Madison escaped from the White House, she cut outfrom the frame the large portrait of Washington (now in one of theparlors there) and carried it off. This is totally false. She had notime for doing it. It would have required a ladder to get it down. Allshe carried off was the silver in her reticule, as the British werethought to be but a few squares off, and were expected every moment.John Suse (a Frenchman, then doorkeeper, and still [1865] living), andMagraw, the President's gardener, took it down and sent it off on awagon, with some large silver urns and such other valuables as couldhastily be got hold of. When the British did arrive, they ate up thevery dinner, and drank the wines, etc., that I had prepared for thePresident's party." On a previous page he had related that: "Mrs.Madison ordered dinner to be ready at three as usual; I set the tablemyself, and brought up the ale, cider, and wine, and placed them in thecoolers, as all the cabinet and several military gentlemen and strangerswere expected."]INDEXINDEX   Abolition Societies, petition for prohibition of African slave trade       to Louisiana, 250.   Adams, John, refers question of Presidential titles to Congress, 123;     his position in the matter, 123, 124, 125;     has popular sympathy in X Y Z affair, 231;     not a leader of a party, 231;     his quarrel with party leaders, 240;     effects of his foreign policy, 242.   Adams, John Quincy, erroneous statement regarding date of Madison's       death, 1-3;     attempt to expel from Congress, 185;     on good luck of Jefferson, 244, 253;     supports Jefferson's embargo policy, 245.   Alien and Sedition Acts, passed in 1798, 231;     their justification, 231, 232;     influence election of 1800, 240.   Ames, Fisher, opposes impost on molasses, 127;     on proposal to tax imported slaves, 130;     his doubts of any future development of West, 140;     on banks, 162;     on over-devotion to Constitution, 173 n.;     on Madison's partisanship, 192.   Annapolis Convention, events leading up to, 52-59;     proposed by Maryland, 55, 59;     meets with delegates from five States, 59;     calls a convention of all the States to revise Constitution, 59, 60;     its meeting due to Madison, 61.   Armstrong, John, on impotence of embargo, 269;     instructed to demand compensation for French spoliation, 284.   Bainbridge, Captain William, in war with Tripoli, 252.   Bank, United States, debated in Congress, 162;     arguments for and against, 162, 163;     favored by House, 163;     discussion concerning, in cabinet, 163;     bill creating, signed by Washington, 163;     Madison's hostility to, 177, 178;     act creating, signed by Madison as President, 319.   Barbary States, war with, during Jefferson's administration, 252.   Barlow, Joel, letters of Madison to, as minister to France, 292, 293,       294;     instructed by Madison to insist on explanations, 305;     urges Bassano for a definite statement as to decrees, 306.   Barron, Commodore Samuel, in war with Tripoli, 252;     in the Chesapeake-Leopard affair, 265.   Bassano, Duke de, shows ante-dated revocation of Berlin and Milan       decrees to Barlow, 305-307;     his reasons, 307.   Bayonne decree, 270.   Berlin decree, issued, 266;     negotiations concerning, 266-307.     See France.   Bonaparte, Napoleon, effect of his career on United States, 242;     sells Louisiana to United States, 249;     promulgates Berlin decree, 266;     the Milan decree, 268;     the Bayonne decree, 270;     causes conditional revocation of decrees, 282;     his policy and its success, 283;     issues Rambouillet decree, 284;     refuses compensation, 284;     his doctrine of blockade, 286, 288;     willingness of Madison to help, 288;     succeeds in forcing United States to declare war on England, 288, 289;     revokes decrees, 304.   Bradford, William, Jr., letter of Madison to, 11, 13, 26.   Breckenridge, John, offers Kentucky Resolutions of 1799, 239.   Brown, John, on advantages of slave trade for North, 130 n.   Burr, Aaron, interview of Jefferson and Madison with, 175.   Butler, Pierce, moves fugitive slave clause in Constitutional       Convention, 107.   Calhoun, John C., leads war party in Congress, 292;     reports from Committee on Foreign Relations in favor of war, 295;     denounces Henry affair, 298.   Canada, its conquest looked forward to by war party, 293, 294, 310;     reluctance of New England to invade, 310.   Canning, George, sends instructions to Erskine, 273;     his directions not obeyed, 274;     repudiates Erskine's acts and recalls him, 275;     bitter comments of Madison upon, 276;     not really responsible for failure of negotiations, 276, 277.   Capital, discussion of its site, 139-143;     settlement of question concerning, by Jefferson's and Hamilton's       bargain, 143, 151, 152.   Carrying trade acquired by United States during Napoleonic wars,       254-256.   Champagny, announces conditional revocation of Berlin and Milan       decrees, 282.   Chesapeake and Leopard affair, 264-266, 274.   Clay, Henry, leads war party in Congress, 292, 294;     expects easy conquest of Canada, 294.   Clinton, De Witt, interview of Jefferson and Madison with, 175;     desires presidential nomination as candidate of war party, 296.   Clinton, George, candidate for presidential nomination, 272.   Cockburn, Admiral George, burns capital at Washington, 316, 317.   Confederation, Articles of, their uselessness according to Hamilton, 36;     require taxation in proportion to land, 37;     proposal to amend by substituting population, 38;     unable to create commercial union, 51, 52;     military inefficiency of, shown by Shays's rebellion, 73;     proposal of Jay to disregard, in making Spanish treaty, 79, 80;     desire of one party in Constitutional Convention to retain, 85, 86.   Congress, Continental, impotence of, in 1780, 20;     financial powerlessness of, 21, 22, 29;     draws bills on France without waiting for its reply to demand for       loan, 28;     in danger from army, 29;     membership of, 30;     instructs Jay to insist on Mississippi navigation, 31;     reverses instructions, 32;     again changes to original position, 33;     proposes impost scheme to States, 33;     proposes five per cent. scheme, 33;     appoints committee to conciliate Rhode Island, 34;     proposes amendment to Articles of Confederation, 37;     adopts compromise concerning rate of taxing slaves, 41;     alarmed at Shays's rebellion, 73;     raises troops against, under pretext of attacking Indians, 73;     discusses proposal to abandon Mississippi navigation in return for       commercial treaty with Spain, 78;     authorizes Jay to make treaty, 79;     later retracts consent to abandon navigation, 80;     prohibits slavery in Northwest Ordinance, 91, 92;     provides for inauguration of government under federal Constitution,       116, 122.   Congress of the United States, its slowness to assemble, 122, 123;     debates question of presidential titles, 123-126;     disagreement in, between Senate and House, 124;     debates impost and tonnage duties, 126-136;     debate in, over proposal to tax imported slaves, 128-133;     arguments in, against the tax, 130, 131;     regrets proposal, 132;     imposes moderate duties, 133;     adopts policy of free trade in slaves, 133 and n.;     lays differential tonnage duties, 134-136;     leadership of Madison in, 136, 137;     passing bills organizing government, 137;     debates question of     removals from office, 137,138;     proposes amendments to Constitution, 139;     debates location of capital, 139-142;     position of parties in, 140;     votes for Pennsylvania, 141;     its action reversed by Madison, 141, 142;     finally decides on Potomac as site, 142, 143;     asks Hamilton to report on public credit, 144;     votes to pay foreign debt, 144;     debate in, as to payment of domestic debt, 144-150;     arguments in, against and for payment of domestic creditors, 145-147;     rejects compromise proposed by Madison, 148;     rejects proposal to assume state debt, 150, 151;     later led by Hamilton's and Jefferson's bargain to consent, 151, 152;     petitioned by Quakers to oppose slavery, 152, 153;     debate in, over its powers and on slavery, 153-161;     ends debate without action, 161;     later debate in, on similar petition, 161;     its power over slavery defined by Madison and Gerry, 159, 160;     prohibits slave trade in foreign vessels, 161;     debates proposed National Bank, 162;     votes in its favor, 163;     establishes newspaper postage, 172;     arranges presidential succession in emergency, 176, 177;     aims to exclude Jefferson, 177;     proposal in to refer various matters to Hamilton, 180, 181;     refuses to let Hamilton appear before it, 181;     passes resolutions of inquiry concerning Hamilton's conduct, 189;     rejects resolutions of censure, 191;     attempts to block Jay treaty, 216, 217;     review of Madison's leadership of, 222, 223;     adopts Alien and Sedition Acts, 231;     prohibits introduction of slaves into Louisiana except by actual       settlers, 250;     called by Jefferson to consider British aggressions, 267;     adopts embargo, 268; repeals it, 271;     unable to adopt a policy, 280;     suspends non-importation act with threat to renew unless England and       France revoke decrees, 280;     renews non-intercourse with England, 288;     determines on war with England, 293, 294;     passes embargo, 295;     declares war, 295, 296;     denounces John Henry letters as cause for war, 298;     adopts bank and tariff for protection, 319.   Connecticut, fails to appoint delegates to Annapolis Convention, 59;     its Revolutionary debt, 151.   Constitution of the United States, part of Madison in framing, 84, 85;     condemned by state-rights men as monarchical, 88, 89;     the slavery compromises in, 91-109;     strong and weak points in, 108, 109;     dissatisfaction of Madison with, 110;     his later efforts to secure adoption of, 110-112;     advocated by "The Federalist," 111, 112;     struggle in Virginia over its ratification, 112-116;     silent on removals from office, 137;     thought by Madison to justify impeachment for wanton removals, 138;     amendments to, proposed by Congress, 139;     said to be disregarded by petitioners against slavery, 153;     its relation to abolition defined by Madison, 156, 159;     and by Gerry, 159, 160;     Madison's strict construction of, surprises Federalists, 173, 174,       175;     held by Jefferson to prohibit Washington's neutrality proclamation,       196;     question of treaty power under, 216, 217;     the doctrine of nullification discussed, 234-240;     violated by Louisiana purchase, 247, 248.   Constitutional Convention, called by Annapolis Convention, 60;     difficulties in gaining attendance of States, 79;     its success endangered by feeling in South over proposed       abandonment of Mississippi navigation, 81-83;     part played by Madison in, the "Virginia" plan, 84; division of       parties in, 85;     attitude of States'-rights party, 86-88;     their secession from, 90;     difficulties in, between large and small States, 90;     divisions in, between free and slave States, 91;     question of representation in, 94;     argument of Northern men against counting slaves in representation,       95, 96;     character of the compromise demanded in, 96, 97;     position of Southern delegates in, 101, 103;     debate in, over slave trade, 101-105;     adopts compromise permitting slave trade and granting Congress       power over commerce, 106;     adopts fugitive slave clause, 107;     estimate of results of its labors, 107, 108.   Convention of Virginia. See Legislature.   Convention of Virginia for ratifying United States Constitution,       campaign in elections for, 112;     part played by Madison in, 113-115;     votes to ratify Constitution, 115;     adjourns, 116.   Conway, Nelly, mother of Madison, 3;     statement of Rives as to her name, 3;     statements of Madison concerning, 3, 4.   Craddock, Lieutenant, 7.   Craig, Sir James, governor of Canada, sends Henry to investigate New       England Federalists, 299, 300.   Curtis, George Ticknor, calls slavery compromise on representation an       "unimportant anomaly," 94.   Dearborn, Henry, attempt of Foster to arrange armistice with, 308.   Debt, public, debate over it in Continental Congress, 28;     in first Congress, 144-152;     policy of Hamilton concerning, 149, 150.   Decatur, Stephen, in war with Tripoli, 252.   Delaware, connection with Potomac navigation, 55;     sends delegates to Annapolis Convention, 59;     only Federalist State outside New England, 243.   Democratic party, formed in first Congress, 165;     its career, 165, 166;     opinion of Hamilton on its organization by Jefferson and Madison,       166-168;     reasons of Madison for joining, 178-184;     plans to ruin Hamilton, 189;     its attack defeated in Congress, 189-191;     attitude toward France, 193, 194;     criticises the neutrality proclamation, 198;     welcomes Genet, 200;     suffers from his extravagance, 202;     imitates French manners, 207;     causes for its success, 210;     its reasons for disliking England, 214;     attacks Alien and Sedition Laws, 233;     carries election of 1800, 241;     does not demand removal of Federalists from offices, 251;     attempts of Federalists to discredit its foreign policy, 263, 264;     elects Madison president, 272;     determines on war with England, 291, 292, 293;     renominates Madison, 296;     its policy during war, 310-318;     rejoices at peace, 318;     supports national bank and protective tariff, 319.   Dexter, Samuel, on social equality in New England, 207, 208.   Diplomatic history, neutrality debated between Hamilton and       Jefferson, 195;     neutrality proclamation issued, 196;     question as to validity of treaty engagements of 1778, 199, 200;     mission of Genet to United States, 199-202;     summary of Washington's foreign policy, 210, 211;     Jay treaty, 211;     its merits, defects, and reasons for acceptance, 211-218;     mission of Monroe to France, 218-220;     foreign relations under Jefferson's administration, 242, 243;     controversy over neutral commerce and impressments, 256-259;     Monroe-Pinkney treaty with England, 261-263;     Erskine's attempt to reconcile England and America, 272-277;     mission of Jackson to Washington, 278;     the offer of Congress to France and England, 281;     Napoleon's conditional revocation, 282-284;     England's refusal, 286;     further demands of Madison upon England, 287;     threatening language of Madison to France, 291-294;     circumstances preceding war with England, 304-308;     treaty of Ghent, 318.   Directory. See France.   Disunion, expected in 1783, if five per cent. scheme fails, 35, 36;     danger of, on account of slave taxation question, 39;     feared by Madison in 1787, 74, 75;     would probably have been preferred by South to abandonment of       Mississippi navigation, 81;     threatened by South in slavery debates in Constitutional       Convention, 99, 100, 102, 103, 109;     freely threatened during Washington's administration, 187;     denounced by Madison late in life, 237;     threatened by New England, 301, 302;     Madison's last words a warning against, 324.   Douai, Merlin de, President of French National Convention, receives       Monroe, 218.   Draper, Lyman C., letters of Madison to, on his ancestry, 3, 4 n., 6.   Ellsworth, Oliver, in Continental Congress, 30;     his education, 31;     disclaims interest of North for or against slave trade, 102;     makes cynical reply to Mason's condemnation of slavery, 102, 103.   Emancipation, movement for, in Northern States, 91;     petition of Benjamin Franklin in favor of, 152, 153;     of Warner Mifflin for, 161.   Embargo, recommended by Jefferson, passed by Congress, 268;     fails to affect England or France, 269;     its results in United States, 269;     leads to Bayonne decree, 270;     repealed, 271;     its failure explained by Madison, 278, 279;     renewed on eve of war with England, 295.   Emott, James, on doctrine of blockade, 286.   England, commercial retaliation against, proposed under the       confederation, 47;     Virginian trade with, 47, 48;     rejoices at prospect of trouble over Mississippi navigation, 78;     its constitution imitated in Federal Convention, 89, 90;     discriminated against in tonnage duties of first Congress, 134, 135;     prejudice of Madison against, 135;     war with France, 197;     Federalists declared by opposition to be partisans of, 194, 197,       198, 200, 203-205;     its policy encourages dislike in America, 209;     makes Jay treaty, 211;     necessity of avoiding war with, 211, 214;     causes for Democratic dislike of, 214;     its overbearing attitude, 214, 215;     real attitude of Federalists toward, 215;     temporary stoppage of friction with, 242, 243;     loses carrying trade to America, 254, 255;     obliged to adopt measures against neutrals in order to defeat       France, 256, 257;     inability of America to resist its depredations, 257, 258, 259;     impresses seamen from American vessels, 258;     non-importation measures adopted against, 260;     refuses to abandon impressment, 262;     makes treaty with Monroe, 262;     refuses to reopen negotiations, 263;     its part in Chesapeake controversy, 266;     issues order in council, 268;     not affected by embargo, 269;     attempted reconciliation with, made through Erskine, 272-275;     attempt of Congress to induce her to revoke orders, 280, 281;     view of Madison as to her policy, 282;     refuses to recognize France's alleged revocation of decrees, 286;     refuses to abandon blockade, 286;     growth of party desirous of war with, 292, 294;     war declared with, 295, 296;     position of Madison concerning war with, 296-303;     said to have plotted with New England, 298, 301;     points out to United States that France has not revoked decrees, 305;     promises to repeal order in council as soon as France revokes, 306;     does so, 307;     fails to prevent war on impressment issue, 308;     its successes in war, 316, 317;     makes peace of Ghent, 318.   Erskine, David M., confers with Madison before his inauguration, 272;     exceeds his instructions and promises a withdrawal of orders in       council, 273;     does not insist on other concessions, 274;     proposes settlement of Chesapeake matter, 274;     fails to resent remarks of Smith, 274;     his arrangement repudiated and himself recalled, 275;     comments of Madison on his behavior, 276;     replaced by Jackson, 277.   Essex Junto, said by Madison to have been proved through Henry       letters to plan secession, 298, 301.   "Federalist," Madison's share in, 111, 112.   Federalist party, Madison at first a member of, 164;     its career, 165;     survival of its principles, 166;     secession of Madison from, 17 2, 173;     views Madison with suspicion, 174-176;     in Congress, arranges presidential succession in emergency so as to       exclude Jefferson, 176, 177;     accuses Madison of changing opinions in hopes of place, 180, 181;     its deference to Hamilton, 180;     accused of desiring monarchy by Jefferson and Madison, 186;     and of favoring England, 194, 197, 198, 200, 203-205;     profits by reaction against Genet, 202, 203;     accused of deluding Washington, 204, 206;     the only impartial American party, 215;     commits blunders after X Y Z affair, 231;     passes Alien and Sedition Acts, 231;     its attitude toward foreign immigrants, 231, 232;     loses popularity, 233;     quarrels in, 240;     defeated in election of 1800, 240, 241;     loses ground everywhere, 243;     rejoices at peace of Ghent, 318;     disappears from politics, 319.   Ferrar, Will, 7.   Finances of the Revolution, their breakdown in 1780 described by       Madison, 20;     reforms suggested by Madison of state paper money, 21;     proposal to collect supplies and pay in certificates, 22;     drawing of bills on France without waiting for acceptance of loan, 28;     public debt in 1783, 28;     deficit in revenue, 29;     the impost scheme defeated by Rhode Island, 33;     the five per cent. scheme proposed, 33;     debate concerning, 34-37;     fails, 38;     paper-money craze in States, 67.   Floyd, Catherine, engaged to Madison, 42;     breaks the engagement, 43, 44.   Floyd, General William, wishes his daughter to marry Madison, 42.   Foster, Augustus J., British minister, tries to prevent outbreak of       hostilities on learning of revocation of orders in council, 307,       308.   France, trade with, preferred by Madison to English trade, 136;     enthusiasm of Jefferson and Madison for, 192;     cautious attitude of Hamilton in payments to, angers Democrats,       193, 194;     declares war against England, 195;     desire of Democrats to help, 197;     relations with, according to treaty of 1778, discussed, 199;     defended by Democrats in Genet case, 203;     gratitude to, traditional, 209;     mission of Monroe to, 218-220;     commits outrages on American merchant vessels, 219;     indignant at Jay treaty, 220;     takes Democratic view of American administration, 220;     relations with, during Adams's administration, 230;     X Y Z affair, 230;     improved relations of Jefferson's administration with, 242;     enforces Berlin decree against American vessels, 266, 267;     these aggressions not resented by Jefferson, 267;     attempt of Congress to induce it to revoke decrees, 280, 281;     expectations of Madison as to its policy, 282;     makes a conditional reply to the conditional offer of Congress,       282-284;     insists that England also withdraw, or that United States "cause       rights to be respected," 283;     refuses compensation for Rambouillet decree, 284;     succeeds in inducing Madison to accept revocation, 285;     continues to seize American ships, 285, 286;     partiality of Madison's policy toward, 287, 288;     success of French policy, 288, 289;     vigorous language of Madison toward, 291, 292, 293;     war with, threatened, 294;     does not really revoke decrees until war is about to break out       between United States and England, 304-305;     displays ante-dated revocation, 307.   Franklin, Benjamin, signs memorial for abolition of slavery, 152;     denounced by Southerners in Congress, 153.   French Revolution, applauded by     Democrats, 193;     desires of Democrats to assist, 194;     attitude of Federalists toward, 193, 195;     its phraseology and mannerisms imitated in America, 207.   Freneau, Philip, Madison's responsibility for his establishment in       State Department, 168;     Madison's purposes in recommending him to Jefferson, 169, 170;     his paper and its character, 170, 171;     his relations to Jefferson and Madison, 171;     care of Madison for, 172.   Gallatin, Albert, opposes Alien and Sedition Acts, 233;     career as secretary of treasury, 252;     condemned by opposition for failure of Erskine's negotiations, 275;     warns Madison of invasion of Chesapeake, 317.   Genet, Edmond Charles, his recognition opposed by Hamilton, 199;     upheld successfully by Jefferson, 200;     anxiety of Madison as to his reception, 200;     alienates Jefferson by his excesses, 201;     accuses Jefferson of duplicity, 201, 202;     at first promises good behavior, 202;     his recall, 207, 209;     effect of his presence on parties in United States, 207;     fears of Jefferson that his recall may cause an insurrection, 209.   Georgia, willing for sake of alliance with Spain to abandon       Mississippi navigation, 32;     fails to appoint delegates to Annapolis convention, 52;     attitude toward slavery in Constitutional Convention, 109.   Gerry, Elbridge, anticipated by Henry in device of gerrymandering, 120;     in first Congress opposes taxation of molasses, 127;     favors tax on imported slaves, 132;     asserts power of Congress to interfere with slavery and slave       trade, 159, 160.   Gerrymandering, used by Henry in Virginia to defeat Madison's       election to Congress, 120, 121.   Giddings, Joshua R., attempt to expel from Congress, 185.   Giles, W. B., offers resolutions demanding investigation of       Hamilton's conduct, 189;     offers resolutions of censure, 191.   Goodhue, Benjamin, opposes impost on molasses, 127.   Gorham, Nathaniel, seconds Pinckney's motion for extension of period       of slave trade, 106.   Guardoqui, ----, negotiates with Jay about Mississippi navigation, 79.   Hamilton, Alexander, in Continental Congress, 30;     equal to Madison in political information, 31;     opposes limitation of five per cent. scheme to twenty-five years,       34, 35;     does not wish to postpone crisis of confederation, 36;     supports Madison's slavery compromise concerning taxation, 41;     writes address of Annapolis Convention, 59;     on name "Federalist," 86;     in Constitutional Convention proposes representation according to       free population, 94;     his share in "The Federalist," 111;     carries New York for Constitution, 115;     his bargain concerning location of capital, 143, 151;     his report on public credit, 145;     suspected of purpose to throw government of country into hands of       wealthy, 149;     recommends a bank, 162;     his argument persuades Washington, 163;     becomes convinced of Madison's opposition, 166;     still believes him honest, 166;     begins to suspect sincerity of his motives, 166, 167;     accuses him of tampering with President's message, 167;     and of aiding Freneau, 168;     avows intention to treat Madison as an enemy, 181;     begins newspaper controversy, 185;     attacks Jefferson bitterly, 186;     consulted by Washington as to declining a second term, 186;     denies accusation of being a monarchist, 186;     violently attacked by Jefferson to Washington, 187;     his reply, 188;     his conduct attacked in Congress by Giles and Madison, 189, 190;     replies successfully, 190;     failure of resolution of censure against, 191;     personal hatred of Madison and Jefferson for, 192;     condemned also because of his attitude toward France, 193;     slow to pay French debt, 193;     defends neutrality in "Pacificus" papers, 198;     argues against alliance with France, 199;     and against receiving a minister from French Republic, 199;     stoned for defending Jay treaty, 212.   Hamilton, John C., asserts Madison's authorship of Giles's       resolutions, 189, 190.   Hartford Convention, its purpose, 311;     alarm felt toward, 312;     brought to nothing by peace of Ghent, 311.   Henry, John, his revelations bought by Madison, 297;     said to prove a plot for reannexing New England to Great Britain, 298;     said to be a just cause for war, 298;     his career as emissary of governor of Canada in Massachusetts, 299;     compromises nobody, 300, 301.   Henry, Patrick, opposes ratification of Constitution, 112;     considers state sovereignty attacked by Constitution, 114;     continues to oppose Constitution in Virginia Assembly, 118;     leads Assembly to call for a new convention, 118;     nominates and elects two anti-federalist senators, 119;     gerrymanders Madison's congressional district, 120;     fails to prevent his election, 120, 121.   Hildreth, Richard, on Madison's acquaintance with Kentucky       Resolutions, 234, 235;     on Madison's career, 323.   Humphreys, Colonel David, letter of Madison to, on secession of New       England, 302.   Impressment, its exercise by England, 258, 259;     discussion over, in Monroe treaty, 262;     abandoned in treaty, 262;     used as pretext for war of 1812, 308;     yet not mentioned in treaty of peace, 308.   Independence of colonies, urged by Virginia, 15, 16.   Jackson, Francis J., replaces Erskine as British minister to United       States, 278;     accuses Madison of bad faith, 278;     his recall demanded, 278.   Jay, John, instructed as minister to Spain, regarding Mississippi       navigation, 31-33;     tries to induce Congress to abandon Mississippi navigation in order       to make treaty with Spain, 79;     wishes to evade Articles of Confederation, 80;     his project opposed by Madison, 81, 82;     his share in "The Federalist," 87, 111;     his treaty with England, 211;     its character and justification, 211;     condemned in cities, 212;     his negotiations opposed by Monroe, 220.   Jay treaty, 211-218.     See Diplomatic History.   Jefferson, Thomas, letter of Madison to, on condition of country, 19,       20;     consoles Madison on his disappointment in love, 44;     at Madison's suggestion, confers with Maryland delegates on Potomac       navigation, 53;     his act for establishing religious freedom passed by legislature,       65;     comments on its passage, 65 n.;     wishes Madison to join him in Europe, 68;     corresponds with Madison on steamboats, 69, 70;     informed by Madison of prehistoric relics, 71;     on Shays's rebellion, 75;     on bargain in Constitutional Convention between New England and       slave States, 106;     letters of Madison to, on Constitution, 110, 116;     and on Virginia politics, 119, 120;     letter of Madison to, on debate over President's title, 124;     letter of Madison to, on foreign commerce, 136;     his views on removals from office, 138;     relation to bargain for location of capital, 143, 152;     opposes a national bank, 163;     influences Madison to abandon Federalist party, 164, 174;     his character and motives as viewed by Hamilton, 166, 167, 168;     connection with Freneau, 168-171, 175;     suggestion of Madison to, with regard to circulating Freneau's       paper, 172;     his tour in Eastern States misrepresented by Federalists, 175;     hatred of Federalists for, 176;     action of Federalists in Congress to prevent his accession as       president _pro tempore_, 176, 177;     attacked by Hamilton in press, 186;     condemns Hamilton in letter to Washington, 187, 188;     his personal hatred of Hamilton, 192;     dislikes him for attitude toward French Revolution, 193;     sympathizes with Jacobins, 193, 194;     objects to declaration of neutrality, 195, 196;     secures modification of proclamation, 196;     wishes to aid France as far as possible, 197;     urges Madison to reply to Hamilton, 198;     secures recognition of Genet, 200;     letters of Madison to, on Genet's reception, 200;     condemns Genet's excesses, 201, 202;     fears reaction in favor of administration, 202, 203;     letters of Madison to, on Washington, 204;     describes Washington's anger at Freneau, 205;     not sincere in considering him a dupe, 206;     fears recall of Genet may cause revolution, 209;     letter of Madison to, on Jay treaty in House of Representatives,       217;     his honest love for farming, 226, 227;     correspondence of Madison with, concerning farming, 228;     requested by Madison to furnish material for house, 228, 229;     writes Kentucky Resolutions, 234;     author of nullification, 234;     avoids public responsibility for resolutions, 235;     his probable reasons for writing them, 235, 236;     denied on erroneous grounds by Madison to have used term       "nullification," 239, 240;     offers Madison secretaryship of state, 241;     his inauguration, 242;     in his inaugural speech urges harmony, 243;     success of his first term, 244;     popular support of, called infatuation by Federalists, 244;     his absolute control as a leader, 245;     his secretive methods, 245;     boldness in assuming responsibility for Louisiana purchase and       other matters, 246;     overshadows and directs Madison, 246;     does not foresee consequences of Louisiana annexation in       stimulating slavery, 246, 247;     his purposes to insure peace, 247, 249;     abused by opponents, 247;     admits unconstitutionality of Louisiana treaty, 248;     comments on criticisms of Federalists, 248;     his fortune in seizing opportunity, 249;     sends expedition of Lewis and Clarke, 249;     gains credit for Gallatin's financial policy, 252;     other successes of his first term, 252;     becomes involved in foreign controversy, 254;     his naval policy, 257, 258;     supported by Madison in policy of commercial pressure, 260;     sends Pinkney to make a treaty with England, 261;     instructs to insist on abandonment of impressment, 262;     dissatisfied with treaty, 263;     after Leopard affair, orders British ships of war out of American       waters, 265;     reluctant to go to war with France, 267;     calls special session of Congress to consider England's       aggressions, 267;     recommends an embargo, 268;     receives news of order in council and Milan decree, 268;     loses control of party with failure of embargo, 270, 271;     dictates choice of successor, 272;     letter of Madison to, on Erskine affair, 276;     on preparations for war, 293.   Jennings, Paul, describes Madison's flight from British, 317 n.;     describes Madison's kindness to slaves, 321;     and his temperance, 321;     his estimate of Madison's character, 323.   Jones, Joseph, desires to be appointed delegate to Congress, 22.   Jordan, Cicely, suit of Pooley against, 7.   Kentucky Resolutions, their preparation by Jefferson, 234, 235.   King, Rufus, remark of Giles to, on Madison's authorship of       resolutions against Hamilton, 190.   Knox, General Henry, on Genet's course, 201.   Lee, Richard Henry, opposes Constitution, 112;     favors a high-sounding presidential title, 124.   Legislature, of Virginia, instructs delegates to Congress to urge       independence of colonies, 15, 16;     debates Bill of Rights, 16;     adopts religious liberty, 17, 18;     elects Madison member of Council, 19;     and delegate to Continental Congress, 19;     neglects to pay his salary, 23-25;     its vacillating course regarding     Mississippi navigation, 31-33;     revokes assent to impost law, 34;     but assents to five per cent. scheme, 34;     its power to make or mar central government, 46;     agrees to proposed amendment to Articles of Confederation, 46;     promises to pay requisitions and old debts, 46, 47;     agrees to temporary control by Congress of trade, 47;     led by Madison to establish ports of entry to regulate foreign       trade, 49, 50;     later modifies the law, 51;     appoints commissioners to discuss Potomac question with Maryland,       54;     considers petitions to improve trade, 55;     defeats attempt of Madison to instruct delegates to give Congress       power over financial and commercial questions, 56;     induced by influence of Maryland to appoint commissioners to       Annapolis Convention, 57, 58;     elects delegates to Federal Convention, 60;     disregards treaty provisions with England, 61, 62;     passes act to incorporate Episcopal Church, 63;     debates question of compulsory support of religion, 63, 64;     passes act for establishing religious freedom, 65;     resists paper-money craze, 67;     instructs delegates to oppose abandonment of Mississippi       navigation, 83;     led by Henry to call for a second Constitutional Convention, 118;     elects two anti-Federalist senators, 119;     gerrymanders Madison's congressional district, 120, 121;     Madison's visit to, in 1798, 230, 235;     adopts resolutions against Alien and Sedition Laws, 235;     part played by Madison in, 1799, 236.   Leopard and Chesapeake affair, 264-266, 274.   Lewis and Clarke, their expedition sent by Jefferson, 249, 250.   Library of Congress, proposed by Madison, 31.   Lincoln, Benjamin, captured at Charleston, 19;     defeats Shays's Rebellion, 73.   Little Belt affair, 290.   Livermore, Samuel, his ingenious argument as to taxing importation of       slaves, 131.   Liverpool, Lord, connection with John Henry letters, 300.   Livingston, Robert R., interview of Jefferson and Madison with, 175.   Louisiana, purchase of, essentially Jefferson's policy, 246;     unwarranted by Constitution, 247, 248;     justified by general welfare, 248;     a result of fortunate circumstances, 248, 249;     its consequences not foreseen by Jefferson, 249, 250;     encourages slave trade, 250, 251.   Madison, Mary, wife of Captain Isaac Madison, 7, 8.   Madison ancestry, statement of Madison concerning, 4 n.   Madison, Captain Isaac, supposed by Rives to be ancestor of James       Madison, 7;     his career in Virginia, 7, 8;     proof that he was not James's ancestor, 8, 9;     dies leaving a wife and daughter, 8, 9.   Madison, James, father of President Madison, 3, 4;     his estates and wealth, 5; educates his children, 10;     his death, 242.   Madison, James, dates of birth and death, 1;       said by J. Q. Adams to have died on anniversary of ratification         of Constitution by Virginia, 1-2;       error in the coincidence, 2, 3;       his mother's family and name, 3, 4;       his ancestry, 4-9;       his own statements concerning family, 4 n., 5, 6, 9;       sent to school, 10;       gratitude toward schoolmaster, 10;       prepares for and enters Princeton, 10;       conflicting statements concerning his studies, 11;       depressed by ill-health, 11;       takes deep interest in theology, 11, 12;       becomes opponent of religious intolerance, 12, 13;       speaks disparagingly of politics, 13, 14.     _Revolutionary Leader._       Erroneously said to have joined a militia company, 15;       member of county committee of safety, 15;       delegate to Virginia Convention, 15;       on committee to frame Constitution, 16;       advocates recognition of right to religious freedom instead of         toleration, 16, 17;       elected to Assembly, 17;       refuses to solicit or buy votes and loses re?lection, 18;       chosen member of governor's council, 19.     _In Continental Congress._       Elected delegate to Congress, 19;       describes to Jefferson the desperate situation in 1780, 20;       considers lack of revenue the true cause, 20;       proposes fruitlessly that Congress request States to cease         issuing paper money, 21;       proposes enforced collection of supplies, 22;       his industry, 23;       appeals to Virginia for pecuniary aid, 23, 24;       helped by Solomon, a broker, 24;       eventually paid, 24, 25;       takes slight interest in military affairs, 25;       his lack of enthusiasm, 26, 27;       on finance committee, 28;       disgusted at method of drawing foreign bills, 28;       his share in proposing remedies, 30;       his knowledge of constitutional law, 30;       urges formation of a Library of Congress, 31;       instructs Jay to insist upon Mississippi navigation, 31;       opposes rescinding these instructions, 32;       condemns rejection by Rhode Island of impost scheme, 33, 34;       refuses to change his position to accommodate Virginia, 34;       his reasons for favoring scheme, 35;       less impatient than Hamilton, 35, 36;       writes address urging acceptance of five per cent. scheme, 36;       proposes a compromise on basis of taxation as concerns slaves,         41;       love affair with Miss Floyd, 42;       jilted by her, 43;       consoled by Jefferson, 44.     _Member of Virginia Legislature._       Chosen to Virginia Assembly, 45;       hopes to strengthen Union, 46;       supports measures to give Congress greater power, 47;       introduces a bill to establish ports of entry in Virginia, 49;       wishes to regulate commerce, 50;       his purpose defeated, 50, 51;       his purpose to stimulate Virginian trade, 52;       his views on navigation of Potomac, 52;       suggests to Jefferson a conference with Maryland, 53, 54;       secures appointment of commissioners by Virginia, 54;       advocates, vainly, granting Congress power to regulate trade, 56;       prepares resolution to appoint commissioners to meet         representatives of other States, 57;       fails to carry measure, 57;       after report of Maryland's proposal, secures passage of         resolution, 58;       chosen to Federal Convention, 60;       chairman of committee to codify Virginia statutes, 61;       tries, vainly, to secure payment of British debts, 62;       votes for incorporation of Episcopal Church, 63;       opposes bill to tax for support of church, 64;       circulates a "Memorial and Remonstrance," 64;       his arguments, 65, 66;       praised by Jefferson, 65 n.;       leads opposition to issue of paper money, 67;       assents to bill authorizing use of tobacco certificates, 67;       continues to study politics and science, 68, 69;       on Rumsey's steamship, 69, 70;       on discoveries of fossils and human relics, 70-72.     _In Congress._       Describes collapse of Confederacy in 1787, 74;       suspects plans for a monarchy, 74;       discouraged at outlook for Constitutional Convention, 76;       opposes Jay's plan to abandon Mississippi navigation, 81;       fears it will ruin Constitutional Convention, 82, 83;       said to have "bargained" on this point with Kentucky delegates in         Virginia legislature, 82;       fears Mississippi question will prevent Virginia from appointing         delegates to convention, 82.     _Member of Federal Convention._      "The Father of the Constitution," 84;       his report of proceedings of convention, 84;       his relation to formation of Constitution, 84, 85;       on use of term "Federal," 86 n.;       unconscious of his own use of British precedents, 90;       views on slavery, 91;       recognizes difficulties in convention to lie between North and         South, 92, 99;       wishes slaves to count in basis of representation, 94, 95;       opposed to foreign slave trade, 104;       disapproves its permission in Constitution, 105;       on finality of slavery compromises, 107;       his view of their necessity to preserve Union, 108, 109.     _Advocate of Constitution in Virginia._       Doubtful as to success of plan, 110;       later determines to urge it, 110, 111;       disapproves proposal for a second convention, 111;       his share in "The Federalist," 111-112;       returns to Virginia as candidate for convention, 112;       not an orator, 113;       his reasoning ability, 113;       doubtful of success, 114;       bears chief burden of debate, 115;       after ratification returns to Congress, 116;       described by Brissot de Warville, 117-118;       defeated for senator in Virginia Assembly through Henry's         influence, 119;       wishes election to House of Representatives, 119;       his election in spite of "gerrymander" arranged by Henry, 120,         121.     _In Congress._       Describes controversy over title of President, 124;       introduces revenue plan in Congress, 126;       willing to admit incidental protection, 126;       advocates taxation on imported slaves, 131, 132;       proposes discriminating tonnage duties, 134;       especially against Great Britain, 135;       calls advocates of English trade "Anglicists," 135, 136;       acts as leader of House in organizing government, 136, 137;       on power of President to remove from office, 138;       considers wanton removal sufficient cause for impeachment, 138;       proposes twelve declaratory amendments to Constitution, 139;       labors to prevent establishment of national capital in         Pennsylvania, 141, 142;       opposes assumption of state debts, 143;       considers the Southern location of capital a compensation, 143;       reports in favor of petition to settle public debt, 144;       proposes discrimination in favor of original holders of domestic         debt, 147, 148;       his proposal impracticable, 149;       unjustly assumes superiority for Virginia over Massachusetts         during Revolution, 150;       his views on Hamilton's and Jefferson's bargain, 152;       stigmatizes debates on Franklin's anti-slavery petitions as         "indecent," 152;       advises moderation on part of slaveholders, 154;       suggests investigation of American participation in slave trade         to foreign countries, 155, 156;       wishes a decisive declaration as to limits of Congressional         power, 156;       dreads effect of agitation, 157;       finally resents extravagance of pro-slavery advocates, 159;       courage of his position, 162;       opposes Hamilton's plan of a bank as unconstitutional, 162;       at Washington's request, writes out his objections, 163;       his change from Federalist to Democrat, 164;       influenced by Jefferson, 164;       comments of Hamilton on his attitude, 166;       accused of low motives for his opposition, 166, 167;       and of tampering with Washington's address to Congress, 167, 168;       accused by Hamilton of complicity with Freneau, 168;       defends his patronage of Freneau to Randolph, 169;       admits his approval of Freneau's paper, 169, 170;       hopes it will act as an antidote to monarchical schemes, 170;       denies any connection with its contents, 171;       advises Freneau not to send his paper by mail, 172;       his "apostasy" as viewed by Federalists, 172-175;       his Northern tour with Jefferson regarded by Federalists with         suspicion, 175, 176;       advocates succession of secretary of state in case of death of         President and Vice-President, 176;       condemns stock-jobbing in connection with bank, 177;       dreads its influence over country, 178, 179;       accused by Federalists of joining the winning side, 180;       seems to be governed by animosity toward Hamilton, 180, 181;       bitterness of Hamilton toward, 181;       discussion of causes for Madison's changed position, 181-183;       verdict of history adverse, 183, 184;       consulted by Washington on propriety of declining a re?lection,         186;       asserted to be author of Giles's resolutions of censure on         Hamilton, 189, 190;       supports them in debate, 192;       comments of Ames upon, 192;       sympathizes with French Revolution, 193;       condemns Hamilton's slowness in paying French debt, 193;       slow in committing himself with regard to neutrality, 198;       takes his cue from party denunciation of Washington, 198;       urged by Jefferson to reply to Hamilton's "Pacificus" papers,         198;       writes a series under name "Helvidius," 198, 199;       hopes Genet will be warmly welcomed, 200;       condemns Genet's folly, 202;       reports to Jefferson increased strength of "Anglican party" in         Virginia, 202, 203;       regrets Washington's position, 204;       hardly sincere in considering him a dupe of Hamilton, 206;       deplores Jay treaty, 216;       introduces resolution calling for Jay's instructions and other         papers, 216;       condemns Washington's refusal, 217;       bitterly disappointed at support of treaty in the House, 217;       his correspondence with Monroe relative to the treaty, 221, 222;       review of his part in Congress, 222, 223;       marries Mrs. Dolly Payne Todd, 223.     _In Retirement._       His continued interest in politics, 225;       historical value of his writings, 225, 226;       their stiff literary style, 226;       his mild interest in farming compared with Jefferson's, 226-228;       builds house at Montpellier, 228-230;       his care in furnishing it, 229, 230.     _In Virginia Assembly, the Virginia Resolutions._       Elected to legislature, 230-236;       possibly connected with Jefferson's Kentucky Resolutions, 234,         235;       determines to induce Virginia legislature to protest against         Alien and Sedition Acts, 235;       later, in 1830-1836, explains his conduct, 236-238;       denies any connection between the Virginia Resolutions and later         doctrine of nullification, 237;       denounces secession, 237, 238;       tries to exculpate Jefferson, 239, 240.     _Secretary of State._       His reasons for accepting Jefferson's offer of Department of         State, 241;       detained from attendance at inauguration by death of father, 242;       rejoices in decline of Federalist party, 243;       overshadowed in his office by Jefferson, 246;       writes paper on British treatment of neutral trade, 257;       indignant at English depredations, 258;       favors non-importation, 260;       condemns Monroe's treaty of 1806, 263;       complains of British indifference to proclamation ordering them         out of American waters, 266.     _President._       Named for succession by Jefferson, 272;       received a diminished electoral vote, 272;       confers with Erskine, 272, 273;       on his assurances issues proclamation repealing non-intercourse,         274;       his sudden popularity, 275;       forced by Canning's action to resume embargo, 275;       bitterly condemned by mercantile classes, 275, 276;       comments on situation, 276;       his mortification, 277;       issues proclamation recalling vessels, 277;       acts as his own foreign secretary, 278;       insulted by Jackson, demands his recall, 278;       later admits failure of embargo, 278;       unable to command harmony in his party, 279;       wishes non-intercourse with both England and France, 280;       authorized to enforce it against either country, 280;       his dismay at prospect, 282;       expects little result from non-intercourse, 282;       accepts statement of Napoleon as to revocation of Milan and         Berlin decrees, 283;       orders Armstrong to insist on compensation for Rambouillet         decree, 284;       submits to refusal of Napoleon, 284;       issues proclamation revoking non-intercourse with France, 285;       bitterly attacked by Federalists, 285, 286;       instructs ministers to insist on England's revocation of blockade         of a portion of French coast, 287;       willing to help Napoleon, 288;       comments on Little Belt affair, 290;       still wishes to keep peace, 291;       repeats to Congress his complaints against Napoleon as well as         England, 291;       protests to France against its trickery, 292;       despises Clay and the war party, 293;       continues to threaten France, 293, 294;       recommends a sixty-day embargo, 295;       follows it by recommending a declaration of war, 295;       his reasons for opposing war, 296;       his rivals for presidential nomination, 296;       asserted to have bought renomination by yielding to war party,         297;       buys letters of John Henry, 297;       submits them to Congress as a cause for war, 298;       later never refers to them, 298;       his probable motives in then believing them, 301;       does not really expect secession of New England, 302, 303;       uses the Henry letters in order to hurry on war, 303;       this act the test of his character and career, 303, 304;       placed in a dilemma by Napoleon's duplicity with regard to Berlin         and Milan decrees, 305;       and still more so by action of France in revoking decrees in         1812, 305-307;       and by English revocation of Orders in Council, 307, 308;       determines to continue war on impressment issue alone, 308;       yet does not insist on even that in peace negotiations, 308;       hopes the war will be popular, 309;       despises naval success, 310;       his error in neglecting navy and failing to involve New England         in war, 310, 311;       bitterness toward New England's opposition to war, 311;       alarmed at Hartford Convention, 311, 312;       discussion of his error in consenting to war, 312, 313;       his qualities not suited for executive office, 313, 314;       in spite of popular reputation shows weakness, 314;       shows incompetency in conduct of war, 315, 316;       devoted to idea of conquering Canada, 316;       expelled from Washington by British, 317;       rejoices at peace of Ghent, 319;       undisturbed during remainder of term, 319;       assents to a national bank, 319;       and to a tariff, 319.    _In Retirement._       Continues interested in politics and history of country, 319,         320;       writes much upon slavery, 320, 321;       his kindness as a master, 321;       temperate habits, 321, 322;       one of the democratic school, 322;       relations with Robert Owen, 322;       with Fanny Wright, 322;       interest in education, 322;       in education of women, 323;       contradictory estimates of, 323;       his "Advice to My Country," 324.    _Characteristics._       General estimate, 313-316, 323-324;       unfriendly views, 166-168, 323;       executive ability, lack of, 313, 314;       farming, interest in, 227, 228;       imagination, lack of, 226;       independence, 175, 184, 246;       kindliness, 321, 323;       liberality, 322;       literary ability, 226;       mildness, 13, 14;       military weakness, 25, 309, 310, 313;       modesty, 5;       natural science, interest in, 68-72;       oratory, 113;       personal appearance, 117;       political ability, 61, 222, 225;       reasoning power, 113, 115, 117, 238;       religious views, 11, 12;       self-seeking, 182-184, 297, 312, 314;       sincerity, 169, 172, 313;       seriousness, 11, 18, 26, 27, 43, 226, 227;       studiousness, 11, 23, 30, 45, 67, 68;       subjection to Jefferson, 104, 193 ff., 246;       temperance, 321, 322;       women, attitude toward, 322, 323.    _Political Opinions._       Annapolis Convention, 57, 58;       assumption of state debt, 150, 151;       bank, 162, 163, 177, 319;       bill of rights, 139;       compromises in the Constitution, 107-109, 156;       Constitution, 84, 110-112, 139, 173, 237-239, 320;       domestic debt, payment of, 147;       embargo, 278;       England, 134, 135, 197, 276, 287, 295, 296, 308;       Federalists, 170, 178, 186, 193, 200, 243;       finances of Confederation, 21, 22;       financial methods of Hamilton, 189;       five per cent. scheme, 33-37;       foreign policy, 196, 204, 274-275, 280, 281;       France, "Continental" system of, 283-285, 287, 288, 291-294, 304;       French Revolution, 193, 200, 203;       Hartford Convention, 312;       impressment, 308;       instruction, doctrine of, 32-34;       Jay treaty, 216;       John Henry letters, 298, 301, 303;       Mississippi navigation, 31-33, 80-83;       navy, 310;       neutrality proclamation, 198;       New England, 302, 311;       non-importation, 260;       nullification, 236-238, 239, 240;       paper money, 67, 118;       petition, right of, 154;       Potomac navigation, 52-54;       protection, 126, 134, 319;       removals from office, 138;       religious freedom, 12, 13, 16, 17, 62-66;       secession, 237, 324;       site of capital, 141-143;       slave trade, 132, 155, 159;       slavery, 108, 109, 320;       slave ratio in representation, 94, 99, 104, 105;       slave ratio in taxation, 41;       slavery, power of Congress over, 156, 159;       state sovereignty, 237;       taxation, 126, 131;       titles, presidential, 124;       trade in Virginia, 49-51;       treaty power, 217;       union, necessity of, 46, 48, 62, 74, 81-83;       Virginia Resolutions, 235 ff.;       war of 1812, 312, 313, 314, 316.   Madison, John, patentee in 1635, supposed ancestor of James Madison,       6.   Magraw, ----, saves portrait of Washington from British, 318.   Maryland, navigates Potomac concurrently with Virginia, 52, 53;     appoints commissioners to discuss Potomac matter with Virginia, 54;     suggests inviting all the States to send delegates, 55;     fails to send delegates to Annapolis Convention, 59.   Martin, Luther, opposes any centralization as monarchical, 75;     condemns action of Federal Convention as beyond its authorization,       88, 89;     on nature of Constitution, 89;     dreads too great influence of English precedents, 89.   Martin, Rev. Thomas, prepares Madison for college, 10.   Mason, George, denounces slavery in Constitutional Convention, 102;     describes bargain between New England and slave States, 106;     opposes ratification of Constitution, 112.   Massachusetts, appoints delegates to Annapolis Convention who do not       attend, 59;     behind Virginia in establishing complete religious freedom, 66;     suppresses Shays's Rebellion, 73;     its sacrifices in Revolution greater than those of Southern States,       150, 151;     contributes more recruits in 1814 than any other State, 311.   Mifflin, Warner, manumits slaves, 161;     petitions Congress for general emancipation, 161;     motion to expunge his petition from journal, 161.   Milan decree, 268.   Mississippi navigation, desire of Congress for, 31;     negotiations of Jay with Spain concerning, 32, 33;     temporary willingness of Southern States to abandon, 32;     renewed demand for, 33;     attitude of Southern States toward, 76, 77;     willingness of Northern States to relinquish, 77;     its abandonment for twenty-five years proposed by Jay, 78, 79, 80;     rejected by Congress, 80;     possible consequences of its abandonment to South, 81;     agitation of question prejudices chances of Federal Convention, 82.   Monroe, James, defeated for Congress by Madison, 121;     letter of Madison to, on location of capital, 142;     his reception as American minister by French National Convention,       218;     protests against French aggressions on American commerce, 219;     does not consider France as hostile as England, 219;     wishes to baffle Jay's negotiations, 220;     encourages France to threaten United States, 220;     rebuked and recalled, 221;     his only excuse that he was deceived by friends in America, 221;     correspondence of Madison with, 221;     sells Madison furniture, 229;     his treaty suppressed by Jefferson, 246;     on British complaints of American commercial trickery, 259;     instructed to insist on abandonment of impressment in proposed       British treaty, 262;     disobeys instructions, 262;     his reasons, 263;     makes subsequent vain attempts to reopen negotiations, 263;     letter of Madison to, on British outrages, 266;     urged by Jefferson not to antagonize Madison for presidency, 272;     desires presidential nomination as war candidate, 296;     testifies that Henry compromises nobody, 300.   Morris, Gouverneur, condemns unreasonableness of Southern demand for       slave representation, 98, 99;     makes a sharp attack on slavery in general, 100;     moves reference of slave trade and trade regulation to a committee,       105;     on popular support of Jefferson, 244.   "National Gazette," story of its establishment by Freneau, 168, 172.   New England, opposition in, to molasses tax, 127;     tour of Madison and Jefferson in, 175;     stronghold of Federalism, 243;     opposes embargo, 279;     opposes war with England, 296;     mission of John Henry to, 298-301;     suspected by Henry of plan to secede, 299;     reluctant to attack Canada, 310;     yet contributes majority of soldiers, 311;     hatred of Madison for, 311;     calls Hartford Convention, 311;     does not really desire alliance with England, 300;     talks disunion, 301;     insincerity of Madison in accusing it of plan to secede, 302, 303;     folly of Madison in not involving it, by naval activity, in war,       310.   New Hampshire, appoints delegates to Annapolis Convention, who do not       attend, 59;     precedes Virginia in ratifying Federal Constitution, 115.   New Jersey, sends delegates to Annapolis Convention, 59;     its instructions to delegates, 50, 60.   New York, refuses consent, in spite of Hamilton's efforts, to five       per cent. scheme, 36, 37;     sends delegates to Annapolis Convention, 59;     influenced by Virginia's ratification of Constitution, 115;     tour of Madison and Jefferson in, 175, 176.   New York Chamber of Commerce, on Jay treaty, 213.   Nicholas, George, offers Jefferson's resolutions in Kentucky       legislature, 234, 235, 239.   Nicholas, William C., consults with Jefferson concerning Kentucky       Resolutions, 234, 235;     letter of Madison to, on New England, 311.   Non-importation Act adopted against England, 260;     arguments of Jefferson and Madison in behalf of, 260, 261;     suspended during Monroe's negotiations, 261;     substituted for embargo, 271;     repealed against England, 274;     renewed, 277.   North Carolina, appoints delegates to Annapolis Convention who do not       attend, 59;     influenced by Virginia's ratification of Federal Constitution, 115;     comments of Madison and de Warville on its refusal to ratify       Constitution, 117, 118;     its representatives prevent choice of a Northern site for capital,       141, 142;     its debt after Revolution, 151.   Nuce, Captain, 7.   Nullification, term used in Kentucky Resolutions, 234;     denied in 1830 by Madison, 236;     his views on, 236-239;     responsibility of Jefferson for, 239, 240.   Orders in Council, issued, 267, 268;     negotiations concerning, 268-308.     See England.   Otis, Harrison Gray, his journey to Washington as representative of       Hartford Convention, 312;     ridiculed, after treaty of peace, by Democrats, 312.   Owen, Robert, Madison's opinion of his schemes, 322.   Paper-money, its ruinous effects during Revolution, 20;     proposals of Madison to restrict its issue, 21, 22;     craze for, in States, 67.   Parker, Jonathan, proposes a tax on importation of slaves, 128, 129;     his opinion of slave trade, 129.   Party feeling, its bitterness in John Adams's, Jefferson's, and       Madison's administrations, 208, 209;     decays during Jefferson's first term, 251.   Patterson, William, argues in Federal Convention against slave       representation, 95.   Peel, Robert, connection with John Henry affair, 300.   Pendleton, Edmund, letter of Madison to, on Yorktown, 25;     letter of Madison to, on necessity of ratifying Constitution, 111.   Pennsylvania, refuses consent to five per cent. scheme, 37;     its connection with Potomac Company, 55;     sends delegates to Annapolis Convention, 59;     proposal to have national capital in, 141, 142;     its debt after the war, 151.   Pinckney, Charles C., alarmed at Morris's intention to oppose slave       representation in Constitution, 98;     satisfied with results of compromises, 103, 104;     moves extension of time for slave trade, 106;     on its adoption, ceases to oppose granting Congress power to       regulate trade, 106;     on fugitive slave clause, 107;     on inability of South Carolina to remain outside Union, 109;     on popular support of Jefferson, 144.   Pinkney, William, sent by Jefferson to negotiate a treaty with       England, 261;     his instructions, 262;     explains why he ignored them, 263;     subsequent action, 263;     letter of Madison to, on situation in 1810, 281;     asks in regard to British order in council concerning blockades,       288.   Pooley, Greville, suit against Cicely Jordan, 7, 8.   Potomac Company, its purposes and influences, 54, 55.   Potomac, navigation of, 52-58.   Powell, Captain, 7.   Preble, Commodore Edward, in war with Barbary pirates, 252.   Prehistoric remains, opinions of Madison concerning, 70-72.   Princeton College, studies of Madison in, 10-12.   Prohibition, Madison's views upon, 321, 322.   Protection, advocated by Madison in first Congress, 126, 134, 135;     by Democratic party in 1816, 319.   Quakers, petition Congress against slave trade, 152;     and against slavery, 152, 153, 161;     bitterly condemned by slaveholders, 153, 154, 157, 158.   Quincy, Josiah, describes effects of embargo, 269, 270;     points out falsity of alleged revocation of Milan and Berlin       decrees, 285, 287;     asserts that Madison favored war to obtain presidential nomination,       297.   Rambouillet decree, 283, 284.   Randolph, Edmund, letters of Madison to, complaining of lack of pay,       as delegate to Congress, 23, 24;     and on collapse of confederacy, 74;     opposes Constitution, 112;     opposes a national bank, 163.   Randolph, John, condemns non-intercourse policy, 260.   Religious freedom, opinion of Madison concerning, 12-14;     debate on, in Virginia Convention, 16, 17;     affirmed in Virginia Bill of Rights, 18;     Madison's share in securing, 18;     further struggle for, in legislature, 62-66;     incorporation of Episcopal Church, 63;     question of compulsory support of religion, 63-66;     advanced position of Virginia regarding, 66;     remarks of Jefferson upon, 65 n.   Rhode Island, refuses assent to impost scheme, 33;     comments of Madison upon, 34;     appoints delegates to Annapolis Convention, who do not attend, 59;     influenced by Virginia's ratification of Constitution, 115;     attitude toward slave trade, 130 n.;     carried by Democrats, 243.   Rives, William C., on Madison's mother's name, 3;     on Madison's father, 5, 10;     on his descent from Isaac Madison, 6-9;     other quotations from his "Life of Madison," 10, 11, 12, 18, 44,       48;     on Mrs. Madison's name, 224.   Robertson, Donald, teacher of Madison, 10;     his son applies to Madison for office, 10.   Ross, General Robert, invades Chesapeake, 317.   Rumsey, James, with Washington's aid secures monopoly for his       steamboat, 69, 70;     opinions of Jefferson upon, 70.   Russell, Jonathan, denies having seen ante-dated revocation of Milan       and Berlin decrees, 307.   Rutledge, John, on necessity of slave trade for the South, 101.   Shays's rebellion, 73;     relation of Congress to, 73.   Sherman, Roger, willing to permit slave trade for sake of union, in       Constitutional Convention, 103;     criticises proposal to tax imported slaves, 130;     on location of capital, 140.   Slavery, possible consequences upon, if Southern States had remained       outside Union, 39-41;     economic effect of, upon Virginia, 48, 49, 51;     attitude of public opinion toward, in 1787, 91;     absence of extreme views against, 92, 108;     in 1787, the paramount interest of South, 92, 93;     attacked bitterly in Constitutional Convention, 98, 100, 101, 102;     cynical attitude of Northern men toward, 102;     debate concerning, in first Congress, 152-161;     foolish policy of slaveholders in defending, 155, 157, 158;     the argument in favor of, 157, 158.   Slaves, question as to their status in computing taxes under       Confederation, 38, 39;     positions of North and South, 38;     necessity of compromise concerning, 39;     compromise adopted, 41;     debate as to their status in Constitutional Convention, 94-101;     confusion as to their position, 97, 98;     trade in, debated, 101-105;     proposal in first Congress to tax their importation, 128, 129;     debate upon, 130-133;     policy of Congress concerning trade in, 133 and note;     Madison's treatment of, 321.   Slave trade. See Slaves.   Smith, John, refers to Isaac Madison, in his "General History," 8.   Smith, Robert, his remarks on England's policy in Chesapeake affair       cause difficulty, 274;     his relation to Madison, 278;     insists on compensation for Rambouillet decree, 283, 284.   Solomon, Hayne, his generous conduct toward Madison, 23, 24.   South Carolina, fails to appoint delegates to Annapolis Convention,       59;     its attitude toward slavery, 91, 103, 104;     unable to refuse Constitution in spite of threats, 104, 109;     its sacrifices in war of Rebellion greater than Virginia's, 151;     reopens slave trade, 250.   Southern States, attitude of, toward slavery, 92, 93-109;     oppose a tonnage tax, 127, 128;     demand seat of government on Potomac, 140-142;     gain by Hamilton's and Jefferson's deal, 152.   Spain, negotiations of Jay with, respecting Mississippi navigation,       31-33;     offers commercial treaty in return for abandonment of Mississippi       navigation, 78-80.   St. Clair, Arthur, his defeat by Indians, 180.   States' rights, theory of, in Federal Convention, 86-88.   Steam navigation, invention of Rumsey, 69;     opinions of Washington, Madison, and Jefferson concerning, 70.   Steele, John, moves to expunge anti-slavery petition from journal of       Congress, 161.   Suse, John, at British capture of Washington, 318 n.   Titles, presidential, debated in first Congress, 123-126;     views of Adams concerning, 123-125;     of Madison, Washington, and Lee, 124, 125.   Todd, Dolly Payne, marries Madison, her appearance and character,       223;     her name, 224;     saves silver from British at capture of Washington, 317 and note.   Tyler, John, introduces Madison's resolutions leading to Annapolis       Convention into Virginia Assembly, 57, 58.   University of Virginia, Madison's connection with, 322.   Virginia, society in, 5, 48;     religious persecution in, 13;     elections in, 18;     sentiment in favor of Mississippi navigation, 32;     temporarily abandons it under fear of English, 32, 33;     economic conditions in, and trade, 47-49;     attempts to improve its trade by establishing ports of entry,       49-51;     opposition in, to Madison's ports of entry, 51, 55;     boundary question with Maryland over Potomac, 52, 53;     question of British debts in, 62;     religious freedom in, secured, 63-66;     paper-money craze in, 67;     tobacco certificates in, 67;     sentiment in, concerning Mississippi navigation, 82;     struggle over ratification of Constitution in, 112-116;     opponents of Constitution in, 112;     attitude toward domestic slave trade, 129;     its services in war of independence compared unfavorably with those       of Massachusetts, 150, 151;     and with South Carolina, 151;     growth of Democratic party in, 174;     Federalist reaction in, against Genet, 202, 203.   War of 1812, events leading up to, 280-308;     hopes of Madison, concerning, 309;     naval activity urged by Webster, 309;     attitude of administration toward navy, 310;     opposition of New England to, 311, 312;     unwise policy of Madison in, 315, 316;     capture of Washington by Cockburn, 316, 317;     peace of Ghent, 318.   Warville, Brissot de, makes a tour in United States, 116;     describes Madison, 117, 118.   Washington, George, president of Potomac Company, 54;     elected delegate to Constitutional Convention, 60;     letter of Madison to, on paper-money craze in Virginia, 67;     certifies trustworthiness of Rumsey's steamboat, 70;     letters of Madison to, on proposal to abandon Mississippi       navigation, 83;     letter of Madison to, on chances of ratification of Constitution,       114;     takes oath of office as President, 122;     question of his title, 123, 124;     said to have favored a pretentious one, 124;     asks opinion of Madison and of cabinet on the bank, 163;     his message to Congress said to have been tampered with by Madison,       167;     consults secretaries as to his refusing a second term, 186;     his reasons for accepting, 187;     his impartiality in cabinet quarrel, 188;     on neutrality between England and France, 195;     issues proclamation, modified to suit Jefferson, 196;     criticised by Democrats, 198;     attacked by Genet, 201;     denies existence of a monarchical party, 203;     opinion of Madison and Jefferson concerning, 204;     considered a dupe, 204, 206;     his anger at Freneau's attacks described by Jefferson, 205;     his influence on Federalist party and national policy, 210;     sends Jay on mission to England, 211;     rejects "provision clause," 212;     said by Democrats to be bought by "British gold," 212;     called upon by House of Representatives for papers in connection       with Jay treaty, 217;     refuses request, 216, 217;     his message condemned by Madison, said to be written by Hamilton,       216, 217;     difficulty of Madison's relations with, as leader of opposition,       222, 223;     his habit of asking Madison's advice, 223, 246.   Webster, Daniel, urges naval preparations for war of 1812, 309.   West, its development dreaded by Eastern States, 77;     or considered impossible, 140;     power of Congress to regulate slavery in, stated by Madison, 159;     its expansion desired by Jefferson, 246, 247.   Wilson, James, in Continental Congress, 30;     on necessity of compromise over slavery in Constitutional       Convention, 96.   Women, education of, opinion of Madison concerning, 322, 323.   Wright, Fanny, Madison's correspondence with, 322.       *       *       *       *       *Transcriber's noteThe following changes have been made to the text:Page 327: "antedated revocation of Berlin" changed to "ante-datedrevocation of Berlin".Page 333: "Guardoqui" moved to appropriate place in the index.Page 335: "foreign controversy, 154" changed to "foreign controversy,254".***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JAMES MADISON********** This file should be named 28992-8.txt or 28992-8.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/8/9/9/28992Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://www.gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://www.gutenberg.org/about/contactFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit:http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg eBook, Atlantic Monthly, Volume 2, Issue 11,September, 1858, by VariousThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Atlantic Monthly, Volume 2, Issue 11, September, 1858Author: VariousRelease Date: December 14, 2003  [eBook #10456][Date last updated: June 15, 2005]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: US-ASCII***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ATLANTIC MONTHLY, VOLUME 2, ISSUE11, SEPTEMBER, 1858***E-text prepared by Joshua Hutchinson, Keith M. Eckrich, and ProjectGutenberg Distributed ProofreadersTHE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.VOL. II.--SEPTEMBER, 1858.--NO. XI.ELOQUENCE.It is the doctrine of the popular music-masters, that whoever canspeak can sing. So, probably, every man is eloquent once in his life.Our temperaments differ in capacity of heat, or we boil at differentdegrees. One man is brought to the boiling point by the excitement ofconversation in the parlor. The waters, of course, are not very deep.He has a two-inch enthusiasm, a pattypan ebullition. Another requiresthe additional caloric of a multitude, and a public debate; a thirdneeds an antagonist, or a hot indignation; a fourth needs arevolution; and a fifth, nothing less than the grandeur of absoluteideas, the splendors and shades of Heaven and Hell.But because every man is an orator, how long soever he may have been amute, an assembly of men is so much more susceptible. The eloquence ofone stimulates all the rest, some up to the speaking point, and allothers to a degree that makes them good receivers and conductors, andthey avenge themselves for their enforced silence by increasedloquacity on their return to the fireside.The plight of these phlegmatic brains is better than that of those whoprematurely boil, and who impatiently break the silence before theirtime. Our county conventions often exhibit a small-pot-soon-hot styleof eloquence. We are too much reminded of a medical experiment, wherea series of patients are taking nitrous-oxide gas. Each patient, inturn, exhibits similar symptoms,--redness in the face, volubility,violent gesticulation, delirious attitudes, occasional stamping, analarming loss of perception of the passage of time, a selfishenjoyment of his sensations, and loss of perception of the sufferingsof the audience.Plato says, that the punishment which the wise suffer, who refuse totake part in the government, is, to live under the government of worsemen; and the like regret is suggested to all the auditors, as thepenalty of abstaining to speak, that they shall hear worse oratorsthan themselves.But this lust to speak marks the universal feeling of the energy ofthe engine, and the curiosity men feel to touch the springs. Of allthe musical instruments on which men play, a popular assembly is thatwhich has the largest compass and variety, and out of which, by geniusand study, the most wonderful effects can be drawn. An audience is nota simple addition of the individuals that compose it. Their sympathygives them a certain social organism, which fills each member, in hisown degree, and most of all the orator, as a jar in a battery ischarged with the whole electricity of the battery. No one can surveythe face of an excited assembly, without being apprised of newopportunity for painting in fire human thought, and being agitated toagitate. How many orators sit mute there below! They come to getjustice done to that ear and intuition which no Chatham and noDemosthenes has begun to satisfy.The Welsh Triads say, "Many are the friends of the golden tongue." Whocan wonder at the attractiveness of Parliament, or of Congress, or thebar, for our ambitious young men, when the highest bribes of societyare at the feet of the successful orator? He has his audience at hisdevotion. All other fames must hush before his. He is the truepotentate; for they are not kings who sit on thrones, but they whoknow how to govern. The definitions of eloquence describe itsattraction for young men. Antiphon the Rhamnusian, one of Plutarch'sten orators, advertised in Athens, "that he would cure distempers ofthe mind with words." No man has a prosperity so high or firm, but twoor three words can dishearten it. There is no calamity which rightwords will not begin to redress. Isocrates described his art, as "thepower of magnifying what was small and diminishing what wasgreat";--an acute, but partial definition. Among the Spartans, the artassumed a Spartan shape, namely, of the sharpest weapon. Socratessays, "If any one wishes to converse with the meanest of theLacedaemonians, he will at first find him despicable in conversation;but, when a proper opportunity offers, this same person, like askilful jaculator, will hurl a sentence worthy of attention, short andcontorted, so that he who converses with him will appear to be in norespect superior to a boy." Plato's definition of rhetoric is, "theart of ruling the minds of men." The Koran says, "A mountain maychange its place, but a man will not change his disposition";--yet theend of eloquence is,--is it not?--to alter in a pair of hours, perhapsin a half-hour's discourse, the convictions and habits of years. Youngmen, too, are eager to enjoy this sense of added power and enlargedsympathetic existence. The orator sees himself the organ of amultitude, and concentrating their valors and powers:  "But now the blood of twenty thousand men  Blushed in my face."That which he wishes, that which eloquence ought to reach, is, not aparticular skill in telling a story, or neatly summing up evidence, orarguing logically, or dexterously addressing the prejudice of thecompany; no, but a taking sovereign possession of the audience. Him wecall an artist, who shall play on an assembly of men as a master onthe keys of the piano,--who, seeing the people furious, shall softenand compose them, shall draw them, when he will, to laughter and totears. Bring him to his audience, and, be they who they may, coarse orrefined, pleased or displeased, sulky or savage, with their opinionsin the keeping of a confessor, or with their opinions in theirbank-safes,--he will have them pleased and humored as he chooses; andthey shall carry and execute that which he bids them.This is that despotism which poets have celebrated in the "Pied Piperof Hamelin," whose music drew like the power of gravitation,--drewsoldiers and priests, traders and feasters, women and boys, rats andmice; or that of the minstrel of Meudon, who made the pallbearersdance around the bier. This is a power of many degrees, and requiringin the orator a great range of faculty and experience, requiring alarge composite man, such as Nature rarely organizes, so that, in ourexperience, we are forced to gather up the figure in fragments, hereone talent, and there another.The audience is a constant metre of the orator. There are manyaudiences in every public assembly, each one of which rules in turn.If anything comic and coarse is spoken, you shall see the emergence ofthe boys and rowdies, so loud and vivacious, that you might think thehouse was filled with them. If new topics are started, graver andhigher, these roisters recede; a more chaste and wise attention takesplace. You would think the boys slept, and that the men have anydegree of profoundness. If the speaker utter a noble sentiment, theattention deepens, a new and highest audience now listens, and theaudiences of the fun and of facts and of the understanding are allsilenced and awed. There is also something excellent in everyaudience,--the capacity of virtue. They are ready to be beatified.They know so much more than the orator,--and are so just! There is atablet there for every line he can inscribe, though he should mount tothe highest levels. Humble persons are conscious of new illumination;narrow brows expand with enlarged affections: delicate spirits, longunknown to themselves, masked and muffled in coarsest fortunes, whonow hear their own native language for the first time, and leap tohear it. But all these several audiences, each above each, whichsuccessively appear to greet the variety of style and topic, arereally composed out of the same persons; nay, sometimes the sameindividual will take active part in them all, in turn.This range of many powers in the consummate speaker and of manyaudiences in one assembly leads us to consider the successive stagesof oratory.Perhaps it is the lowest of the qualities of an orator, but it is, onso many occasions, of chief importance,--a certain robust and radiantphysical health,--or, shall I say? great volumes of animal heat. Wheneach auditor feels himself to make too large a part of the assembly,and shudders with cold at the thinness of the morning audience, andwith fear lest all will heavily fail through one bad speech, mereenergy and mellowness are then inestimable. Wisdom and learning wouldbe harsh and unwelcome, compared with a substantial cordial man, madeof milk, as we say, who is a house-warmer, with his obvious honestyand good meaning, and a hue-and-cry style of harangue, which inundatesthe assembly with a flood of animal spirits, and makes all safe andsecure, so that any and every sort of good speaking becomes at oncepracticable. I do not rate this animal eloquence very highly, and yet,as we must be fed and warmed before we can do any work well, even thebest, so is this semi-animal exuberance, like a good stove, of thefirst necessity in a cold house.Climate has much to do with it,--climate and race. Set a New Englanderto describe any accident which happened in his presence. Whathesitation and reserve in his narrative! He tells with difficulty someparticulars, and gets as fast as he can to the result, and, though hecannot describe, hopes to suggest the whole scene. Now listen to apoor Irish-woman recounting some experience of hers. Her speech flowslike a river,--so unconsidered, so humorous, so pathetic, such justicedone to all the parts! It is a true transubstantiation,--the factconverted into speech, all warm and colored and alive, as it fell out.Our Southern people are almost all speakers, and have every advantageover the New England people, whose climate is so cold, that, 'tis said,we do not like to open our mouths very wide. But neither can theSoutherner in the United States, nor the Irish, compare with thelively inhabitant of the South of Europe. The traveller in Sicilyneeds no gayer melodramatic exhibition than the _table d'hote_ of hisinn will afford him, in the conversation of the joyous guests. Theymimic the voice and manner of the person they describe; they crow,squeal, hiss, cackle, bark, and scream like mad, and, were it only bythe physical strength exerted in telling the story, keep the table inunbounded excitement. But in every constitution some large degree ofanimal vigor is necessary as material foundation for the higherqualities of the art.But eloquence must be attractive, or it is none. The virtue of booksis to be readable, and of orators to be interesting, and this is agift of Nature; as Demosthenes, the most laborious student in thatkind, signified his sense of this necessity when he wrote, "GoodFortune," as his motto on his shield. As we know, the power ofdiscourse of certain individuals amounts to fascination, though it mayhave no lasting effect. Some portion of this sugar must intermingle.The right eloquence needs no bell to call the people together, and noconstable to keep them. It draws the children from their play, the oldfrom their arm-chairs, and the invalid from his warm chamber; it holdsthe hearer fast, steals away his feet, that he shall not depart,--hismemory, that he shall not remember the most pressing affairs,--hisbelief, that he shall not admit any opposing considerations. Thepictures we have of it in semi-barbarous ages, when it has someadvantages in the simpler habit of the people, show what it aims at.It is said that the Khans, or story-tellers in Ispahan and othercities of the East, attain a controlling power over their audience,keeping them for many hours attentive to the most fanciful andextravagant adventures. The whole world knows pretty well the style ofthese improvisators, and how fascinating they are, in our translationsof the "Arabian Nights." Scheherzarade tells these stories to save herlife, and the delight of young Europe and young America in them provesthat she fairly earned it. And who does not remember in childhood somewhite or black or yellow Scheherzarade, who, by that talent of tellingendless feats of fairies and magicians, and kings and queens, was moredear and wonderful to a circle of children than any orator of Englandor America is now? The more indolent and imaginative complexion of theEastern nations makes them much more impressible by these appeals tothe fancy.These legends are only exaggerations of real occurrences, and everyliterature contains these high compliments to the art of the oratorand the bard, from the Hebrew and the Greek down to the ScottishGlenkindie, who  --"harpit a fish out o' saut water,    Or water out of a stone,  Or milk out of a maiden's breast    Who bairn had never none."Homer specially delighted in drawing the same figure. For what is the"Odyssey," but a history of the orator, in the largest style, carriedthrough a series of adventures furnishing brilliant opportunities tohis talent? See with what care and pleasure the poet brings him on thestage. Helen is pointing out to Antenor, from a tower, the differentGrecian chiefs. "Antenor said: 'Tell me, dear child, who is that man,shorter by a head than Agamemnon, yet he looks broader in hisshoulders and breast. His arms lie on the ground, but he, like aleader, walks about the bands of the men. He seems to me like astately ram, who goes as a master of the flock.' Him answered Helen,daughter of Jove: 'This is the wise Ulysses, son of Laertes, who wasreared in the state of craggy Ithaca, knowing all wiles and wisecounsels.' To her the prudent Antenor replied again: 'O woman, youhave spoken truly. For once the wise Ulysses came hither on anembassy, with Menelaus, beloved by Mars. I received them, andentertained them at my house. I became acquainted with the genius andthe prudent judgments of both. When they mixed with the assembledTrojans and stood, the broad shoulders of Menelaus rose above theother; but, both sitting, Ulysses was more majestic. When theyconversed, and interweaved stories and opinions with all; Menelausspoke succinctly, few but very sweet words, since he was nottalkative, nor superfluous in speech, and was the younger. But whenthe wise Ulysses arose, and stood, and looked down, fixing his eyes onthe ground, and neither moved his sceptre backward nor forward, butheld it still, like an awkward person, you would say it was some angryor foolish man; but when he sent his great voice forth out of hisbreast, and his words fell like the winter snows, not then would anymortal contend with Ulysses; and we, beholding, wondered notafterwards so much at his aspect." [_Iliad_, III. 192.]Thus he does not fail to arm Ulysses at first with this power ofovercoming all opposition by the blandishments of speech. Plutarchtells us that Thucydides, when Archidamus, king of Sparta, asked him,Which was the best wrestler, Pericles or he? replied, "When I throwhim, he says he was never down, and he persuades the very spectatorsto believe him." Philip of Macedon said of Demosthenes, on hearing thereport of one of his orations, "Had I been there, he would havepersuaded me to take up arms against myself"; and Warren Hastings saidof Burke's speech on his impeachment, "As I listened to the orator, Ifelt for more than half an hour as if I were the most culpable beingon earth."In these examples, higher qualities have already entered; but thepower of detaining the ear by pleasing speech, and addressing thefancy and imagination, often exists without higher merits. Thusseparated, as this fascination of discourse aims only at amusement,though it be decisive in its momentary effect, it is yet a juggle, andof no lasting power. It is heard like a band of music passing throughthe streets, which converts all the passengers into poets, but isforgotten as soon as it has turned the next corner; and unless thisoiled tongue could, in Oriental phrase, lick the sun and moon away, itmust take its place with opium and brandy. I know no remedy against itbut cotton-wool, or the wax which Ulysses stuffed into the ears of hissailors to pass the Sirens safely.There are all degrees of power, and the least are interesting, butthey must not be confounded. There is the glib tongue and coolself-possession of the salesman in a large shop, which, as is wellknown, overpower the prudence and resolution of housekeepers of bothsexes. There is a petty lawyer's fluency, which is sufficientlyimpressive to him who is devoid of that talent, though it be, in somany cases, nothing more than a facility of expressing with accuracyand speed what everybody thinks and says more slowly, without newinformation, or precision of thought,--but the same thing, neitherless nor more. It requires no special insight to edit one of ourcountry newspapers. Yet whoever can say off currently, sentence bysentence, matter neither better nor worse than what is there printed,will be very impressive to our easily-pleased population. Thesetalkers are that class who prosper like the celebrated schoolmaster,by being only one lesson ahead of the pupil. Add a little sarcasm, andprompt allusion to passing occurrences, and you have the mischievousmember of Congress. A spice of malice, a ruffian touch in hisrhetoric, will do him no harm with his audience. These accomplishmentsare of the same kind, and only a degree higher than the coaxing of theauctioneer, or the vituperative style well described in thestreet-word "jawing." These kinds of public and private speaking havetheir use and convenience to the practitioners; but we may say of suchcollectively, that the habit of oratory is apt to disqualify them foreloquence.One of our statesmen said, "The curse of this country is eloquentmen." And one cannot wonder at the uneasiness sometimes manifested bytrained statesmen, with large experience of public affairs, when theyobserve the disproportionate advantage suddenly given to oratory overthe most solid and accumulated public service. In a Senate or otherbusiness committee, the solid result depends on a few men with workingtalent. They know how to deal with the facts before them, to putthings into a practical shape, and they value men only as they canforward the work. But some new man comes there, who has no capacityfor helping them at all, is insignificant, and nobody in thecommittee, but has a talent for speaking. In the debate with opendoors, this precious person makes a speech, which is printed, and readall over the Union, and he at once becomes famous, and takes the leadin the public mind over all these executive men, who, of course, arefull of indignation to find one who has no tact or skill, and knows hehas none, put over them by means of this talking power which theydespise.Leaving behind us these pretensions, better or worse, to come a littlenearer to the verity, eloquence is attractive as an example of themagic of personal ascendency;--a total and resultant power,--rare,because it requires a rich coincidence of powers, intellect, will,sympathy, organs, and, over all, good-fortune in the cause. We have ahalf-belief that the person is possible who can counterpoise all otherpersons. We believe that there may be a man who is a match forevents,--one who never found his match,--against whom other men beingdashed are broken,--one of inexhaustible personal resources, who cangive you any odds and beat you. What we really wish for is a mindequal to any exigency. You are safe in your rural district, or in thecity, in broad daylight, amidst the police, and under the eyes of ahundred thousand people. But how is it on the Atlantic, in a storm? Doyou understand how to infuse your reason into men disabled by terror,and to bring yourself off safe then?--how among thieves, or among aninfuriated populace, or among cannibals? Face to face with ahighwayman who has every temptation and opportunity for violence andplunder, can you bring yourself off safe by your wit, exercisedthrough speech?--a problem easy enough to Caesar, or Napoleon.Whenever a man of that stamp arrives, the highwayman has found amaster. What a difference between men in power of face! A man succeedsbecause he has more power of eye than another, and so coaxes orconfounds him. The newspapers, every week, report the adventures ofsome impudent swindler, who, by steadiness of carriage, duped thosewho should have known better. Yet any swindlers we have known arenovices and bunglers, as is attested by their ill name. A greaterpower of face would accomplish anything, and, with the rest of theirtakings, take away the bad name. A greater power of carrying the thingloftily, and with perfect assurance, would confound merchant, banker,judge, men of influence and power, poet, and president, and might headany party, unseat any sovereign, and abrogate any constitution inEurope and America. It was said, that a man has at one step attainedvast power, who has renounced his moral sentiment, and settled it withhimself that he will no longer stick at anything. It was said of SirWilliam Pepperel, one of the worthies of New England, that, "put himwhere you might, he commanded, and saw what he willed come to pass."Julius Caesar said to Metellus, when that tribune interfered to hinderhim from entering the Roman treasury, "Young man, it is easier for meto put you to death than to say that I will"; and the youth yielded.In earlier days, he was taken by pirates. What then? He threw himselfinto their ship; established the most extraordinary intimacies; toldthem stories; declaimed to them; if they did not applaud his speeches,he threatened them with hanging,--which he performed afterwards,--and,in a short time, was master of all on board. A man this is who cannotbe disconcerted, and so can never play his last card, but has areserve of power when he has hit his mark. With a serene face, hesubverts a kingdom. What is told of him is miraculous; it affects menso. The confidence of men in him is lavish, and he changes the face ofthe world, and histories, poems, and new philosophies arise to accountfor him. A supreme commander over all his passions and affections; butthe secret of his ruling is higher than that. It is the power ofNature running without impediment from the brain and will into thehands. Men and women are his game. Where they are, he cannot bewithout resource. "Whoso can speak well," said Luther, "is a man." Itwas men of this stamp that the Grecian States used to ask of Spartafor generals. They did not send to Lacedaemon for troops, but theysaid, "Send us a commander"; and Pausanias, or Gylippus, or Brasidas,or Agis, was despatched by the Ephors.It is easy to illustrate this overpowering personality by theseexamples of soldiers and kings; but there are men of the most peacefulway of life, and peaceful principle, who are felt, wherever they go,as sensibly as a July sun or a December frost,--men who, if theyspeak, are heard, though they speak in a whisper,--who, when they act,act effectually, and what they do is imitated: and these examples maybe found on very humble platforms, as well as on high ones.In old countries, a high money-value is set on the services of men whohave achieved a personal distinction. He who has points to carry musthire, not a skilful attorney, but a commanding person. A barrister inEngland is reputed to have made twenty or thirty thousand pounds _perannum_ in representing the claims of railroad companies beforecommittees of the House of Commons. His clients pay not so much forlegal as for manly accomplishments,--for courage, conduct, and acommanding social position, which enable him to make their claimsheard and respected.I know very well, that, among our cool and calculating people, whereevery man mounts guard over himself, where heats and panics andabandonments are quite out of the system, there is a good deal ofskepticism as to extraordinary influence. To talk of an overpoweringmind rouses the same jealousy and defiance which one may observe rounda table where anybody is recounting the marvellous anecdotes ofmesmerism. Each auditor puts a final stroke to the discourse byexclaiming, "Can he mesmerize _me_?" So each man inquires if anyorator can change _his_ convictions.But does any one suppose himself to be quite impregnable? Does hethink that not possibly a man may come to him who shall persuade himout of his most settled determination?--for example, good sedatecitizen as he is, to make a fanatic of him? or, if he is penurious, tosquander money for some purpose he now least thinks of? or, if he is aprudent, industrious person, to forsake his work, and give days andweeks to a new interest? No, he defies any one, every one. Ah! he isthinking of resistance, and of a different turn from his own. But whatif one should come of the same turn of mind as his own, and who seesmuch farther on his own way than he? A man who has tastes like mine,but in greater power, will rule me any day, and make me love my ruler.Thus it is not powers of speech that we primarily consider under thisword Eloquence, but the power that, being present, gives them theirperfection, and, being absent, leaves them a merely superficial value.Eloquence is the appropriate organ of the highest personal energy.Personal ascendency may exist with or without adequate talent for itsexpression. It is as surely felt as a mountain or a planet; but whenit is weaponed with a power of speech, it seems first to become trulyhuman, works actively in all directions, and supplies the imaginationwith fine materials.This circumstance enters into every consideration of the power oforators, and is the key to all their effects. In the assembly, youshall find the orator and the audience in perpetual balance, and thepredominance of either is indicated by the choice of topic. If thetalents for speaking exist, but not the strong personality, then thereare good speakers who perfectly receive and express the will of theaudience, and the commonest populace is flattered by hearing its lowmind returned to it with every ornament which happy talent can add.But if there be personality in the orator, the face of things changes.The audience is thrown into the attitude of pupil, follows like achild its preceptor, and hears what he has to say. It is as if, amidstthe king's council at Madrid, Ximenes urged that an advantage might begained of France, and Mendoza that Flanders might be kept down, andColumbus, being introduced, was interrogated whether his geographicalknowledge could aid the cabinet, and he can say nothing to one partyor to the other, but he can show how all Europe can be diminished andreduced under the king by annexing to Spain a continent as large assix or seven Europes.This balance between the orator and the audience is expressed in whatis called the pertinence of the speaker. There is always a rivalrybetween the orator and the occasion, between the demands of the hourand the prepossession of the individual. The emergency which hasconvened the meeting is usually of more importance than anything thedebaters have in their minds, and therefore becomes imperative tothem. But if one of them have anything of commanding necessity in hisheart, how speedily he will find vent for it, and with the applause ofthe assembly! This balance is observed in the privatest intercourse.Poor Tom never knew the time when the present occurrence was sotrivial that he could tell what was passing in his mind without beingchecked for unseasonable speech; but let Bacon speak, and wise menwould rather listen, though the revolution of kingdoms was on foot. Ihave heard it reported of an eloquent preacher, whose voice is not yetforgotten in this city, that, on occasions of death or tragicdisaster, which overspread the congregation with gloom, he ascendedthe pulpit with more than his usual alacrity, and, turning to hisfavorite lessons of devout and jubilant thankfulness, "Let us praisethe Lord," carried audience, mourners, and mourning along with him,and swept away all the impertinence of private sorrow with hishosannas and songs of praise. Pepys says of Lord Clarendon, with whom"he is mad in love," on his return from a conference, "I did neverobserve how much easier a man do speak when he knows all the companyto be below him, than in him; for, though he spoke indeed excellentwell, yet his manner and freedom of doing it, as if he played with it,and was informing only all the rest of the company, was mightypretty." [_Diary_, I. 469.]This rivalry between the orator and the occasion is inevitable, andthe occasion always yields to the eminence of the speaker; for a greatman is the greatest of occasions. Of course, the interest of theaudience and of the orator conspire. It is well with them only whenhis influence is complete; then only they are well pleased.Especially, he consults his power by making instead of taking histheme. If he should attempt to instruct the people in that which theyalready know, he would fail; but, by making them wise in that which heknows, he has the advantage of the assembly every moment. Napoleon'stactics of marching on the angle of an army, and always presenting asuperiority of numbers, is the orator's secret also.The several talents which the orator employs, the splendid weaponswhich went to the equipment of Demosthenes, of AEchines, of Demades,the natural orator, of Fox, of Pitt, of Patrick Henry, of Adams, ofMirabeau, deserve a special enumeration. We must not quite omit toname the principal pieces.The orator, as we have seen, must be a substantial personality. Then,first, he must have power of statement,--must have the fact, and knowhow to tell it. In any knot of men conversing on any subject, theperson who knows most about it will have the ear of the company, if hewishes it, and lead the conversation,--no matter what genius ordistinction other men there present may have; and in any publicassembly, him who has the facts, and can and will state them, peoplewill listen to, though he is otherwise ignorant, though he is hoarseand ungraceful, though he stutters and screams.In a court of justice, the audience are impartial; they really wish tosift the statements, and know what the truth is. And, in theexamination of witnesses, there usually leap out, quite unexpectedly,three or four stubborn words or phrases which are the pith and fate ofthe business, which sink into the ear of all parties, and stick there,and determine the cause. All the rest is repetition and qualifying;and the court and the county have really come together to arrive atthese three or four memorable expressions, which betrayed the mind andmeaning of somebody.In every company, the man with the fact is like the guide you hire tolead your party up a mountain or through a difficult country. He maynot compare with any of the party in mind, or breeding, or courage, orpossessions, but he is much more important to the present need thanany of them. That is what we go to the court-house for,--the statementof the fact, and the elimination of a general fact, the real relationof all the parties; and it is the certainty with which, indifferentlyin any affair that is well handled, the truth stares us in the face,through all the disguises that are put upon it,--a piece of thewell-known human life,--that makes the interest of a court-room to theintelligent spectator.I remember, long ago, being attracted by the distinction of thecounsel, and the local importance of the cause, into the court-room.The prisoner's counsel were the strongest and cunningest lawyers inthe Commonwealth. They drove the attorney for the State from corner tocorner, taking his reasons from under him, and reducing him tosilence, but not to submission. When hard-pressed, he revengedhimself, in his turn, on the judge, by requiring the court to definewhat salvage was. The court, thus pushed, tried words, and saideverything it could think of to fill the time, supposing cases, anddescribing duties of insurers, captains, pilots, and miscellaneoussea-officers that are or might be,--like a schoolmaster puzzled by ahard sum, who reads the context with emphasis. But all this flood notserving the cuttle-fish to get away in, the horrible shark of thedistrict-attorney being still there, grimly awaiting with his "Thecourt must define,"--the poor court pleaded its inferiority. Thesuperior court must establish the law for this, and it read awaypiteously the decisions of the Supreme Court, but read to those whohad no pity. The judge was forced at last to rule something, and thelawyers saved their rogue under the fog of a definition. The partswere so well cast and discriminated, that it was an interesting gameto watch. The government was well enough represented. It was stupid,but it had a strong will and possession, and stood on that to thelast. The judge had a task beyond his preparation, yet his positionremained real; he was there to represent a great reality, the justiceof states, which we could well enough see beetling over his head, andwhich his trifling talk nowise affected, and did not impede, since hewas entirely well-meaning.The statement of the fact, however, sinks before the statement of thelaw, which requires immeasurably higher powers, and is a rarest gift,being in all great masters one and the same thing,--in lawyers,nothing technical, but always some piece of common sense, alikeinteresting to laymen as to clerks. Lord Mansfield's merit is themerit of common sense. It is the same quality we admire in Aristotle,Montaigne, Cervantes, or in Samuel Johnson, or Franklin. Itsapplication to law seems quite accidental. Each of Mansfield's famousdecisions contains a level sentence or two, which hit the mark. Hissentences are not always finished to the eye, but are finished to themind. The sentences are involved, but a solid proposition is setforth, a true distinction is drawn. They come from and they go to thesound human understanding; and I read, without surprise, that theblack-letter lawyers of the day sneered at his "equitable decisions,"as if they were not also learned. This, indeed, is what speech is for,to make the statement; and all that is called eloquence seems to me oflittle use, for the most part, to those who have it, but inestimableto such as have something to say.Next to the knowledge of the fact and its law, is method, whichconstitutes the genius and efficiency of all remarkable men. A crowdof men go up to Faneuil Hall; they are all pretty well acquainted withthe object of the meeting; they have all read the facts in the samenewspapers. The orator possesses no information which his hearers havenot; yet he teaches them to see the thing with his eyes. By the newplacing, the circumstances acquire new solidity and worth. Every factgains consequence by his naming it, and trifles become important. Hisexpressions fix themselves in men's memories, and fly from mouth tomouth. His mind has some new principle of order. Where he looks, allthings fly into their places. What will he say next? Let this manspeak, and this man only. By applying the habits of a higher style ofthought to the common affairs of this world, he introduces beauty andmagnificence wherever he goes. Such a power was Burke's, and of thisgenius we have had some brilliant examples in our own political andlegal men.Imagery. The orator must be, to a certain extent, a poet. We are suchimaginative creatures, that nothing so works on the human mind,barbarous or civil, as a trope. Condense some daily experience into aglowing symbol, and an audience is electrified. They feel as if theyalready possessed some new right and power over a fact, which they candetach, and so completely master in thought. It is a wonderful aid tothe memory, which carries away the image, and never loses it. Apopular assembly, like the House of Commons, or the French Chamber, orthe American Congress, is commanded by these two powers,--first by afact, then by skill of statement. Put the argument into a concreteshape, into an image, some hard phrase, round and solid as a ball,which they can see and handle and carry home with them, and the causeis half won.Statement, method, imagery, selection, tenacity of memory, power ofdealing with facts, of illuminating them, of sinking them by ridiculeor by diversion of the mind, rapid generalization, humor, pathos, arekeys which the orator holds; and yet these fine gifts are noteloquence, and do often hinder a man's attainment of it. And if wecome to the heart of the mystery, perhaps we should say that the trulyeloquent man is a sane man with power to communicate his sanity. Ifyou arm the man with the extraordinary weapons of this art, give him agrasp of facts, learning, quick fancy, sarcasm, splendid allusion,interminable illustration,--all these talents, so potent and charming,have an equal power to insnare and mislead the audience and theorator. His talents are too much for him, his horses run away withhim; and people always perceive whether you drive, or whether thehorses take the bits in their teeth and run. But these talents arequite something else when they are subordinated and serve him; and wego to Washington, or to Westminster Hall, or might well go round theworld, to see a man who drives, and is not run away with,--a man who,in prosecuting great designs, has an absolute command of the means ofrepresenting his ideas, and uses them only to express these; placingfacts, placing men; amid the inconceivable levity of human beings,never for an instant warped from his erectness. There is for every mana statement possible of that truth which he is most unwilling toreceive,--a statement possible, so broad and so pungent, that hecannot get away from it, but must either bend to it or die of it. Elsethere would be no such word as eloquence, which means this. Thelistener cannot hide from himself that something has been shown himand the whole world, which he did not wish to see; and, as he cannotdispose of it, it disposes of him. The history of public men andaffairs in America will readily furnish tragic examples of this fatalforce.For the triumphs of the art somewhat more must still be required,namely, a reinforcing of man from events, so as to give the doubleforce of reason and destiny. In transcendent eloquence, there was eversome crisis in affairs, such as could deeply engage the man to thecause he pleads, and draw all this wide power to a point. For theexplosions and eruptions, there must be accumulations of heatsomewhere, beds of ignited anthracite at the centre. And in caseswhere profound conviction has been wrought, the eloquent man is he whois no beautiful speaker, but who is inwardly drunk with a certainbelief. It agitates and tears him, and perhaps almost bereaves him ofthe power of articulation. Then it rushes from him as in short, abruptscreams, in torrents of meaning. The possession the subject has of hismind is so entire, that it insures an order of expression which is theorder of Nature itself, and so the order of greatest force, andinimitable by any art. And the main distinction between him and otherwell-graced actors is the conviction, communicated by every word, thathis mind is contemplating a whole and inflamed by the contemplation ofthe whole, and that the words and sentences uttered by him, howeveradmirable, fall from him as unregarded parts of that terrible wholewhich he sees, and which he means that you shall see. Add to thisconcentration a certain regnant calmness, which, in all the tumult,never utters a premature syllable, but keeps the secret of its meansand method; and the orator stands before the people as a demoniacalpower to whose miracles they have no key. This terrible earnestnessmakes good the ancient superstition of the hunter, that the bulletwill hit its mark, which is first dipped in the marksman's blood.Eloquence must be grounded on the plainest narrative. Afterwards, itmay warm itself until it exhales symbols of every kind and color,speaks only through the most poetic forms; but, first and last, itmust still be at bottom a biblical statement of fact. The orator isthereby an orator, that he keeps his feet ever on a fact. Thus only ishe invincible. No gifts, no graces, no power of wit or learning orillustration will make any amends for want of this. All audiences arejust to this point. Fame of voice or of rhetoric will carry people afew times to hear a speaker, but they soon begin to ask, "What is hedriving at?" and if this man does not stand for anything, he will bedeserted. A good upholder of anything which they believe, afact-speaker of any kind, they will long follow; but a pause in thespeaker's own character is very properly a loss of attraction. Thepreacher enumerates his classes of men, and I do not find my placetherein; I suspect, then, that no man does. Every thing is my cousin,and whilst he speaks things, I feel that he is touching some of myrelations, and I am uneasy; but whilst he deals in words, we arereleased from attention. If you would lift me, you must be on higherground. If you would liberate me, you must be free. If you wouldcorrect my false view of facts,--hold up to me the same facts in thetrue order of thought, and I cannot go back from the new conviction.The power of Chatham, of Pericles, of Luther, rested on this strengthof character, which, because it did not and could not fear anybody,made nothing of their antagonists, and became sometimes exquisitelyprovoking and sometimes terrific to these.We are slenderly furnished with anecdotes of these men, nor can wehelp ourselves by those heavy books in which their discourses arereported. Some of them were writers, like Burke; but most of them werenot, and no record at all adequate to their fame remains. Besides,what is best is lost, the fiery life of the moment. But the conditionsfor eloquence always exist. It is always dying out of famous places,and appearing in corners. Wherever the polarities meet, wherever thefresh moral sentiment, the instinct of freedom and duty, come indirect opposition to fossil conservatism and the thirst of gain, thespark will pass. The resistance to slavery in this country has been afruitful nursery of orators. The natural connection by which it drewto itself a train of moral reforms, and the slight yet sufficientparty organization it offered, reinforced the city with new blood fromthe woods and mountains. Wild men, John Baptists, Hermit Peters, JohnKnoxes, utter the savage sentiment of Nature in the heart ofcommercial capitals. They send us every year some piece of aboriginalstrength, some tough oak-stick of a man who is not to be silenced orinsulted or intimidated by a mob, because he is more mob thanthey,--one who mobs the mob,--some sturdy countryman, on whom neithermoney, nor politeness, nor hard words, nor eggs, nor blows, norbrickbats, make any impression. He is fit to meet the bar-room witsand bullies; he is a wit and a bully himself, and something more; heis a graduate of the plough, and the stub-hoe, and the bush-whacker;knows all the secrets of swamp and snow-bank, and has nothing to learnof labor or poverty or the rough of farming. His hard head wentthrough in childhood the drill of Calvinism, with text andmortification, so that he stands in the New England assembly a purerbit of New England than any, and flings his sarcasms right and left.He has not only the documents in his pocket to answer all cavils andto prove all his positions, but he has the eternal reason in his head.This man scornfully renounces your civil organizations,--county, orcity, or governor, or army,--is his own navy and artillery, judge andjury, legislature and executive. He has learned his lessons in abitter school. Yet, if the pupil be of a texture to bear it, the bestuniversity that can be recommended to a man of ideas is the gauntletof the mobs.He who will train himself to mastery in this science of persuasionmust lay the emphasis of education, not on popular arts, but oncharacter and insight. Let him see that his speech is not differencedfrom action; that, when he has spoken, he has not done nothing, nordone wrong, but has cleared his own skirts, has engaged himself towholesome exertion. Let him look on opposition as opportunity. Hecannot be defeated or put down. There is a principle of resurrectionin him, an immortality of purpose. Men are averse and hostile, to givevalue to their suffrages. It is not the people that are in fault fornot being convinced, but he that cannot convince them. He should mouldthem, armed as he is with the reason and love which are also the coreof their nature. He is not to neutralize their opposition, but he isto convert them into fiery apostles and publishers of the same wisdom.The highest platform of eloquence is the moral sentiment. It is whatis called affirmative truth, and has the property of invigorating thehearer; and it conveys a hint of our eternity, when he feels himselfaddressed on grounds which will remain when everything else is taken,and which have no trace of time or place or party. Everything hostileis stricken down in the presence of the sentiments; their majesty isfelt by the most obdurate. It is observable, that, as soon as one actsfor large masses, the moral element will and must be allowed for, willand must work; and the men least accustomed to appeal to thesesentiments invariably recall them when they address nations. Napoleon,even, must accept and use it as he can.It is only to these simple strokes that the highest power belongs,when a weak human hand touches, point by point, the eternal beams andrafters on which the whole structure of Nature and society is laid. Inthis tossing sea of delusion, we feel with our feet the adamant; inthis dominion of chance, we find a principle of permanence. For I donot accept that definition of Isocrates, that the office of his art isto make the great small and the small great; but I esteem this to beits perfection,--when the orator sees through all masks to the eternalscale of truth, in such sort that he can hold up before the eyes ofmen the fact of today steadily to that standard, thereby making thegreat great and the small small,--which is the true way to astonishand to reform mankind.All the first orators of the world have been grave men, relying onthis reality. One thought the philosophers of Demosthenes's own timefound running through all his orations,--this, namely, that "virtuesecures its own success." "To stand on one's own feet" Heeren findsthe keynote to the discourses of Demosthenes, as of Chatham.Eloquence, like every other art, rests on laws the most exact anddeterminate. It is the best speech of the best soul. It may well standas the exponent of all that is grand and immortal in the mind. If itdo not so become an instrument, but aspires to be somewhat of itself,and to glitter for show, it is false and weak. In its right exercise,it is an elastic, unexhausted power,--who has sounded, who hasestimated it?--expanding with the expansion of our interests andaffections. Its great masters, whilst they valued every help to itsattainment, and thought no pains too great which contributed in anymanner to further it, and, resembling the Arabian warrior of fame, whowore seventeen weapons in his belt, and in personal combat used themall occasionally,--yet undervalued all means, never permitted anytalent, neither voice, rhythm, poetic power, anecdote, sarcasm, toappear for show, but were grave men, who preferred their integrity totheir talent, and esteemed that object for which they toiled, whetherthe prosperity of their country, or the laws, or a reformation, orliberty of speech or of the press, or letters, or morals, as above thewhole world, and themselves also.       *       *       *       *       *THE KINLOCH ESTATE, AND HOW IT WAS SETTLED.[Concluded.]CHAPTER XII.The disappearance of Lucy Ransom did not long remain a secret; it rangthrough the town, and was accompanied by all sorts of rumors. Somethought she had eloped; but the prevailing opinion was, that she hadbeen tempted into a fatal error, and then, in the frenzy of remorseand shame, had destroyed herself, in order to hide her disgrace fromthe world. Slight hints were now recalled by many of the poor girl'sacquaintance,--hints of love, unrequited and hopeless,--of base andunfeeling treachery,--of remediless sorrow, appealing to the deepestsympathy, and not the less because her heart found utterance in rudeand homely phrases. This idea of self-destruction gained the morecurrency because no one had seen the least trace of the girl after thetwilight of the preceding night, and it was deemed improbable that shecould have made her way on foot the whole distance to therailway-station without being seen by some one. And when it wasreported that a boy had found a shawl not far from the dam, the publicbecame so much aroused that it was determined to make a thoroughsearch. The pond and canal were dragged, and the bank of the rivercarefully explored for miles below the town. The search was kept upfar into the night, the leaders being provided with pitch-pinetorches. At every bend, or eddy, or sand-bar, or fallen tree, where itmight be supposed that a drifting body would be stopped, the boldestbreathed faster, and started at the first glimpse of a white stone ora peeled and bleached poplar-trunk, or other similar object, fearingit might prove to be what they expected, yet dreaded to see. But itwas in vain. Lucy, whether alive or dead, was not to be found. Hergrandmother hobbled down to the village, moaning piteously; but shecould get little consolation, least of all from Mrs. Kinloch. Thisincident made a lasting impression. The village boys, who rememberedthe search with shuddering horror, avoided the river, and even Hughfound means to persuade Mildred to give up the pleasant road on itsbank and take the hill district for their afternoon rides.Meanwhile the time for the trial of the ejectment suit was rapidlyapproaching, and it was difficult to say whether plaintiff ordefendant showed the more signs of anxiety. Mr. Hardwick's life seemedto be bound up in his shop; it was dear to him in the memory of longyears of cheerful labor; it was his pride as well as his dependence;he had grown old by its flaming forge, and he could never feel at homein any other spot. "Young trees may be moved," he would say; "an oldone dies in transplanting." It was noticed by all his friends that thestoop in his shoulders was more decided, his step less elastic, andhis ordinary flow of spirits checked.Mrs. Kinloch, too, grew older unaccountably fast. Her soft brown hairbegan to whiten, her features grew sharp, and her expression quick,watchful, and intense. Upon being spoken to, she would start andtremble in her whole frame; her cheeks would glow momentarily, andthen become waxen again.Impatient at the slow progress of her son's wooing, and impelled nowby a new fear that all her plans might be frustrated, if Mildredshould happen to hear any rumor touching the cause of Lucy'sdisappearance, Mrs. Kinloch proposed to herself to assist him moreopenly than she had hitherto done--She was not aware that anythingimplicating Hugh had been reported, but she knew enough of humannature to be sure that some one would be peering into the mystery,--amystery which she divined by instinct, but had not herself dared toexplore. So, finding a favorable opportunity, she sat down besideMildred, determined to read the secret of her soul; for she made noquestion that she could scan her, as she might the delicate machineryof the French clock, noiselessly moving under its crystal cover.Mildred shuddered unconsciously, as she felt her step-mother's thinfingers gently smoothing the hair upon her temples; still more, as thepale and quivering lips were pressed to her forehead. The caress wasnot a feigned tenderness. Mrs. Kinloch really loved the girl, withsuch love as she had to bestow; and if her manner had been latterlyabstracted or harsh, it was from preoccupation. She was soon satisfiedthat the suspicion she dreaded had not found place in the girl's mind.Leading the way by imperceptible approaches, she spoke in her softesttones of her joy at Hugh's altered manners, her hopes of his future,and especially of her desire to have him leave the navy and settle onshore."How happy we might be, Hugh and we," she said, "if we could live herein this comfortable home, and feel that nothing but death would breakup the circle! How much your dear father counted on the happiness instore for him in growing old with his children around him!--and wouldhe not be rejoiced to see us cling together, bound by ties as strongas life, and cherishing his memory by our mutual affection?"Mildred replied in some commonplaces,--rather wondering at the vein ofsentiment, and in no way suspecting the object which her step-motherhad in view.Mrs. Kinloch continued:--"Hugh needs some new attraction now to detainhim; he is tired of the sea, but he finds the village dull. He is justof the age to think of looking for some romantic attachment; but youknow how few girls there are here whose manners and education are suchas to please a cultivated man."Mildred grew uneasy, but remained silent. Mrs. Kinloch was everymoment more eager in her manner; a novice, waiting for the turn of thecards in _rouge et noir_, would not have manifested a greater anxietyas to the result. But the girl looked out of the window, and did notsee the compressed lips, dilated nostrils, and glittering eyes, thatgave such a contradiction to the bland words."Mildred, my daughter," she continued, "I have no secrets fromyou,--least of all about matters that concern us both. Don't you seewhat I would say? Don't you know what would make our circle complete,inseparable? Pardon the boldness of a fond mother, whose only desireis to see her children happy."Mildred felt a tear dropping upon the hand which Mrs. Kinloch heldwith a passionate grasp. She felt the powerful magnetism which thewoman exerted upon her, and she trembled, but still kept silent."It is for Hugh that I speak. He loves you. Has he not told you so?""I do not wish to talk with you about it," said Mildred."But I have a right, as his mother and your guardian, to know. Ishould be wanting in my duty, if I suffered your happiness to beperilled for want of a clear understanding between you. Hugh is proudand sensitive, and you bashful and just the least foolish; so that youare at cross purposes.""Hugh fully understands my feelings towards him.""You have given him encouragement?" she asked, eagerly."None whatever: it would have been wrong in me to do so.""Wrong to love him! Why, he is your brother only in name.""Wrong to encourage him in a love I do not and cannot return," repliedMildred, with a mighty effort, at the same time disengaging her hand.Mrs. Kinloch could not repress a feeling of admiration, even in herdespair, as she saw the clear, brave glance, the heightened color, andthe heaving bosom of the girl."But, in time, you may think differently," she said, almost piteously."I wished to be spared this pain, mother," Mildred replied, tremblingat her own boldness, "but you will not let me; and I must tell you,kindly, but decidedly, that I never could marry Hugh under anycircumstances whatever."Her mother did not wince at the rebuff, but followed on even closer."And why? Who is there more manly, well-educated, kindly, dutiful,than Hugh?""I don't wish to analyze his character; probably we shouldn'taltogether agree in our judgment; but it is enough that I don't feelin the least attracted by him, and that I could not love him, if hewere all that you imagine.""Then you love another!" said Mrs. Kinloch, fiercely.Mildred was excessively agitated; but, though her knees trembled, hervoice was clear and soft as it had been. "Yes, I do love another; andI don't hesitate to avow it.""That blacksmith's upstart?" in a still louder key."You mean Mark Davenport, probably, who deserves more respectfullanguage.""Brought up in coal-dust,--the spoiled and forward pet of a foolishold stutterer, who depends for his bread on his dirty work, and who,if he had only his own, would have to leave even the hovel he worksin." It was fearful to see how these contemptuous words were hissedout by the infuriated woman.Mildred was courageous, but she had not passed through the disciplinethat had developed her step-mother's faculties. So she burst intotears, saying, amidst her sobs, that Mark was allowed by all who knewhim to be a young man of promise; that, for herself, she didn't carehow much coal-dust he had been through,--_that_ would wash off; that,at any rate, she loved him, and would never marry anybody else.Mrs. Kinloch began to consider. Anger had whirled her away once; asecond explosion might create an irreparable breach between them."Don't lay up what I have said, Mildred," she urged, in a mild voice."If I object to your choice, it is because I am proud of you and wantyou to look high. You can marry whom you choose; no rank or stationneed be considered above you. Come, don't cry, dear!"But Mildred refused to be soothed. She could not sympathize with thetropical nature, that smiled like sunshine at one moment, and the nextburst into the fury of a tornado. She pushed off the beseeching hand,turned from the offered endearments, and, with reddened, tear-stainedface, left the room.Hugh presently passed through the hall. "Well, mother," said he, "Isuppose you think you've done it now.""Go about your business, you foolish boy!" she retorted. "Go and trysomething that you do know about. You can snare a partridge, or shoota woodcock, perhaps!"CHAPTER XIII.Mildred had now no peace; after what had happened, she could not meetHugh and his mother with any composure. The scheming woman had riskedeverything in the appeal she made to her daughter,--risked everything,and lost. Nothing could restore harmony; neither could forget thestruggle and live the old quiet life. Mrs. Kinloch, always pursued byanxiety, was one day full of courage, fruitful in plans and resources,and the next day cast down into the pit of despair. Now she clung toher first hope, believing that time, patience, kindness, would softenMildred's resolution; then, seeing the blank indifference with whichshe treated Hugh, she racked her invention to provide other means ofattaining her end.Again, the thought of her inexplicable loss came over her, and she wasfrightened to madness; creeping chills alternating with cold sweatstortured her. It was a mystery she could not penetrate. She could notbut implicate Lucy: but then Lucy might be in her grave. After everycircumstance had passed in review, her suspicions inevitably returnedand fastened upon her lawyer, Clamp. She almost wished he would cometo see her again; for he, being naturally sulky at his firstreception, had left the haughty woman severely alone. She determinedto send for him, on business, and then to try her fascinations uponhim, to draw him out, and see if he held her secret."Aha!" thought the Squire, as he received the message, "she comes toher senses! Give a woman like Mrs. Kinloch time enough to consider,and she will not turn her back on her true interest. O Theophilus, youare not by any means a fool! Slow and steady, slow and steady you go!Let the frisky woman _appear_ to have her way,--you will win in theend!"The wig and best suit were brushed anew, water was brought intorequisition for the visible portions of his person, and, with his mostengaging expression arranged upon his parchment face, he presentedhimself before the widow.There was a skirmish of small talk, during which Mr. Clamp was placidand self-conscious, while his _vis-a-vis_, though smiling andapparently at ease, was yet alert and excited,--darting furtiveglances, that would have startled him like flashes of sunlightreflected from a mirror, if he had not been shielded by his ownself-complacency."You-have-sent-for-me-on-business,-I-believe," said the lawyer, in atone continuous and bland as a stream of honey."Yes, Sir; I have great confidence in your judgment, and I know thatyou are devoted to the interests of our family. My poor husband alwaysesteemed you highly.""Oh, Ma'am! you do me honor!""If I have not consulted you about our affairs of late, it is becauseI have had troubles which I did not wish to burden you with.""We all have our troubles, Mrs. Kinloch.""They are very sad to bear,--but profitable, nevertheless."But I'm sure you must be wonderfully supported in your trials; I neversaw you looking better."And truly, her thin and mobile lips were of a strangely bright coral,and her usually wan cheeks wore a delicate flush, lending her abeauty, not youthful, to be sure, but yet fascinating. One mightdesire to see an eye less intense and restless, but he would rarelysee a woman of forty so charming."You notice my color," said Mrs. Kinloch, mournfully, and with a faintsmile; "it's only the effect of a headache. I am far enough fromwell.""Indeed!" was the sympathetic reply."I have met with a great loss, Mr. Clamp,--some papers of the greatestimportance. I was going to consult you about them.""In which I got ahead of you," thought he."Now, ever since the disappearance of Lucy, I have thought she hadsomething to do with them. I never went to the secretary, but she wassure to be spying about. And I believe she knew about my affairs aswell as I do myself.""Or I," mentally ejaculated the lawyer,--meanwhile keeping as close asan oyster.She continued,--"As the girl was ignorant, and without any interest inthe matter more than that of curiosity, I am puzzled to account forall this.""'Tis strange, truly!""Yes, I'm sure she must be only the tool of some shrewder person.""You alarm me! Who can it be?""Perhaps Mildred, or some one who is plotting for her. The Hardwicks,you know, expect she will marry Mark Davenport.""Do they, indeed? Well, now, that's a shrewd conjecture. Then youthink Lucy didn't drown herself?""She? By no means!""But what can I do in the matter, Mrs. Kinloch?""We must find Lucy, or else discover her confidant,"--looking fixedlyat him."Not very easy to do," said he, never once wincing under her scrutiny."Not easy for me. But those that hide can find. Nothing is beyondsearch, if one really tries."During this cross-examination, Mr. Clamp's premeditated gallantry hadbeen kept in the background; but he was determined not to let thepresent opportunity pass by; he therefore turned the current ofconversation."You have not told me, Mrs. Kinloch, _what_ the loss is; so I cannotjudge of its importance. You don't wish to have any more repositoriesof secrets than are necessary; but I think you will readily see thatour interests lie in the same direction. If the girl can be found andthe papers recovered by anybody, I am the one to do it. If that isimpossible, however, the next thing is to be prepared for what mayhappen; in either emergency, you can hardly do better than to acceptmy aid.""Of course, I depend entirely upon you.""We may as well understand each other," said the lawyer, forgettingthe wily ways by which he had intended to approach her. "I havecertain views, myself, which I think run parallel with yours; and if Iam able to carry you and your property safely through thesedifficulties, I think you will not scruple to----"To pay you to your heart's content," she broke in, quickly. "No, Ishall not scruple, unless you ask more than half the estate.""I ask for nothing but yourself," said he, with sudden boldness."That is to say, you want the whole of it.""Charming woman! don't, pray, compel me to talk in this language oftraffic. It is you I desire,--not the estate. If there is enough tomake you more comfortable than would be possible with my means, Ishall be happy for your sake."Her lips writhed and her eyes shot fire. Should she breathe the scornshe felt, and brave the worst? Or should she temporize? Time mightbring about a change, when she could safely send the mercenary suitorback to his dusty and cobwebbed office."We do understand each other," she said, slowly. "This is a matter tothink of. I had never thought to marry again, and I cannot answer yourdelicate proposal now. Let me have a week to consider.""Couldn't we arrange the matter just as well now? I beg your pardon,Ma'am, if I seem too bold.""Oh, your youthful ardor and impetuosity! To be sure, one must forgivethe impatience of a lover in his first passion! But you must wait,nevertheless."Mr. Clamp laughed. It was a good joke, he thought."I must bid you good afternoon, Squire Clamp. I have made my headacheworse by talking on a subject I was not prepared for."So Mr. Clamp was bowed out. He did not clearly understand her quickand subtle movements, but he felt sure of his game in the end. Thescornful irony that had played about him like electricity he had notfelt.When he was gone, the woman's worst enemy would have pitied herdistress. She believed more than ever that Clamp had used Lucy toabstract her papers, and that he now would hold his power over her tobring about the hated marriage. Her firmness gave way; she sank on thesofa and wept like a child. Would that she might yet retreat! But no,the way is closed up behind her. She must go on to her destiny.CHAPTER XIV.Mark Davenport was prosperous in all his undertakings. His position inthe school did not give much scope to his ambition, but the salary hereceived was ample enough to pay his expenses, while the duties werenot so onerous as to engross all his time. All his leisure was givento literary pursuits. He had many times thought he would relinquishthe drudgery of teaching, and support himself by his pen; but heremembered the maxim of Scott,--that literature was a good staff, buta poor crutch,--and he stuck to his school. As he grew into apractised writer, he became connected with the staff of a dailynewspaper in the great city, furnishing leading articles when calledupon, and he soon acquired a position of influence among hisassociates. He had maintained a correspondence with Mildred, and waslooking forward to the time when he should make a visit to his nativetown, hoping then to be so well established in the world that he mightbe able to bring her back with him as his bride. Every thought centredin her. He coveted fame, wealth, position, only for her sake; andstimulated by this thought, he had made exertions that would havebroken down a man less vigorous and less resolute.He received a letter from Innisfield one day, after a longinterval,--so long that he had become uneasy, and imagined every kindof evil as the cause of delay. He broke the seal; it was not fromMildred, but from his cousin Lizzie. These were the contents:--"My dear Mark,--I suppose you may have been anxious before this, atnot hearing from us; but the truth is, we have not had anything verypleasant to write, and so have put off sending to you. Father is by nomeans well or strong. The lawsuit, which is now likely to go wrong,has troubled him very much. He has grown thin, he stoops as he walksabout, and by night he coughs terribly. I rarely hear him sing as heused to. Then Squire Clamp has complained of him before the church,and you know father is over-sensitive about his relations with 'thebrethren,'--even with those who are trying to ruin him. He ismelancholy enough. I hope he will be better, if he gets through hisdifficulties; otherwise I am afraid to think of what may happen."You wonder, probably, at not getting a letter from Mildred. Don't besurprised when I tell you that she has left home and is staying at Mr.Alford's. Mrs. Kinloch has for a long time wanted her to marry thathateful Hugh Branning, and became so violent about it that Mildred wasafraid of her. Lucy Ransom, who lived there, ran away a short timeago, very mysteriously. It seems that the girl had stolen somethingfrom the house, and, after Mildred had plumply refused to marry Hugh,Mrs. Kinloch charged upon her that she had induced Lucy to steal thepapers or money, or whatever it was. Mrs. Kinloch acted so like aninsane woman, that Mildred would not stay in the house, but ran overto Mr. Alford's, with only the clothes she wore. She passed by ourhouse yesterday and told me this hurriedly. I have heard, too, thatSquire Clamp is about to marry Mrs. Kinloch, and that he actually hasprocured the license. It's a very strange affair."To fill out the account of disagreeable things,--last evening, in oneof the stores, people were talking of Lucy Ransom's fate, (as theyhave been for weeks,) when Will Fenton, the cripple, said, 'he guessedHugh Branning could tell what had become of her, if he chose.' Hugh,it seems, heard of the remark, and to-day he went with a dandyishdoctor, belonging to the navy, I believe, and beat the poor cripplewith a horsewhip, most shamefully. I think this violence has turnedsuspicion against him."I am sorry not to have one pleasant thing to say, except that we alllove you as warmly as ever, and hope to see you soon here. Indeed,Cousin Mark, I dread to write it,--but if you don't come soon, I thinkyou will see father only on his last bed.   "Good-bye, dear Mark!              Your Cousin,--LIZZIE."We will waste no time in attempting to analyze Mark's conflictingemotions, but follow him to Innisfield, whither he went the same day.Great as was his desire to see his betrothed, from whom he hadreceived no letter for many weeks, he went first of all, where dutyand affection called, to see the dear old man who had been to him morethan a father.Mr. Hardwick was sitting in the corner, but rose up with a new energyas he heard the well-known voice. Mark was not prepared, even by hiscousin's foreboding letter, to see such a change as his uncleexhibited;--the hollow eyes, the wasted cheeks, the bent figure, thetrembling hands, bore painful testimony to his enfeebled condition. Heheld both of Mark's hands in his, and, while his eyes were dim in atear-mist, said, with a faltering voice, "Bless you, m-my boy! I'mglad to see you once more. I thought I might hear my s-summons beforeyou'd come. You do remember your old uncle!"Mark could not restrain himself, but wept outright. The old gentlemansank into his chair, still clasping Mark's hands. Neither could speak,but they looked towards each other an unutterable tenderness.At length, controlling the tide of feeling, Mr. Hardwicksaid,--"D-don't be cast down, Mark; these tears are not b-bitter, butf-full of joy. Th-there, now, go and kiss your sister and Lizzie."The girls appeared wiping their eyes, for they had left the roomoverpowered; they greeted Mark affectionately, and then all sat downabout the hearth. Topics enough there were. Mark told of his pursuitsand prospects. The village gossip about the lost servant-girl, (ofwhom Mark knew something, but had reasons for silence,) theapproaching marriage of Mrs. Kinloch, and the exile of the heiressfrom her own home, were all discussed. After a reasonable time, Markexcused himself and went to Mr. Alford's, pondering much on thestrange events that had perplexed the usually quiet village. Hereached the house, after a brief walk, and was met by Aunt Mercy, theportly mistress, but with something less than her accustomedcordiality."Miss Kinloch is not able to see company," she said, "and must beexcused."Mark poured forth a torrent of questions, to which Mrs. Alfordlistened, her broad features softening visibly; and at length, with anapparent effort, she asked him "to come agin to-morrer or the dayarter."The more Mark reflected on Mrs. Alford's behavior, the more he waspuzzled. Had Mildred denied him admission? His own betrothed refuse tosee him! No, he was sure she was sick; and besides, she could not haveheard of his coming. So he soothed himself. But the imps of suspicionand jealousy still haunted him at intervals, and a more miserable manthan the usually buoyant and sanguine Mark it would be difficult tofind.The next day, as soon as breakfast was over, Mark, though trying tocheer up his uncle, was secretly longing for the hour when it would beproper to present himself at Mr. Alford's. But time does move, albeitwith lagging pace to a lover, and in due season Mark was on his way.Near the house he met the farmer, who greeted him heartily, and wishedhim joy with a knowing smile. Mark took a freer breath; if there wasany difficulty, Mr. Alford certainly did not know it. But then itoccurred to him, that shy young ladies do not often make confidants ofelderly husbandmen in long blue frocks, and his spirits fell again.Mr. Alford leaned against a fence and threshed his hands to keep themwarm, while he told Mark that "he had been with Mildred privately outto the Probate Court,--that the case had been stated to the jedge, whoallowed, that, as she was above fourteen, she had a right to chooseher own guardeen,--that he, Alford, was to be put in, in place of theSquire,--and that then, in his opinion, there would be an overhaulin'so's to hev things set to rights."Mark shook the hand of his good friend warmly, and commended hisshrewdness."But 'ta'n't best to stan' talkin' with an ol' feller like me," saidthe farmer, "when you can do so much better. Jest look!"Mark turned his head, and through the window of the house saw theretreating figure of Mildred. He bounded across the yard, opened thedoor without knocking, and rushed into the house. She had vanished: noone was visible but Mrs. Alford, who was cutting up golden pumpkins inlong coils to dry."Come, Milly," said the good woman, "'ta'n't no use; he saw ye."And Mildred appeared, coming slowly out of the buttery."Ye see, Mildred felt a little hurt about a letter; but I _knew_ therewas some mistake; so I wa'n't a-goin' to hev ye go off 'thout someexplanation.""A letter?--explanation?" said Mark, thoroughly bewildered."Here it is," said Mildred, taking a letter from her pocket, stilllooking down. Mark hastily took and opened it. The envelope boreMildred's address in a hand not unlike his own; the inclosure was aletter from Mildred to himself, which he now saw for the first time."Mildred," said he, holding out his hands, "could you doubt me?"She covered her face with her apron, but stood irresolute. He lookedagain at the letter."Why, the clumsy trick, Mildred! This post-office stamp, 'New York,'is not genuine. Just look! it is a palpable cheat, an imitation madewith a pen. The color did not spread, you see, as ink mixed with oildoes. This letter never left this village. I never saw itbefore,--could not have seen it. Do you doubt me now, dear Mildred?"Even if the evidence had been less convincing, the earnest, heartfelttone, the pleading look and gesture, would have satisfied a much moreexacting woman. She sprang towards her lover, and flung her arms abouthis neck. The pent-up feeling of days and weeks rushed over her like aflood, and the presence of Mrs. Alford was forgotten.Mrs. Alford, it would seem, suddenly thought of something; for,gathering herself up, she walked off as fast as the laws ofgravitation allowed, exclaiming,--"There! I never did see! Sech hens!Allus a-flyin' into the kitchen. I wonder now who left that are dooropen."The frightened cackle of the hens, the rattling of pots and pans bythe assiduous housewife in the kitchen, were unheeded by the lovers,"emparadised in one another's arms." The conversation took too wide arange and embraced too many trivial details to be set down here. Onlythis I may say: they both believed, (as every enamored couplebelieves,) that, though other people might cherish the properestaffection for each other, yet no man or woman ever did or couldexperience such intense and all-pervading emotion as now throbbed intheir breasts,--in fact, that they had been created to exemplify thepassion, which, before, poets had only imagined. Simple children! theyhad only found out what hearts are made for!CHAPTER XV.The last picture was a pleasant relief in a rather sombre story,therefore we prefer to commence a stormier scene in a new chapter.Mark and Mildred were sitting cozily by the ample fireplace,--not atopposite corners, you may believe,--when there was a warning _ahem!_at the door, and the sound of feet "a-raspin' on the scraper." Mr.Alford entered and said, "Milly, your step-mother's team is comin' upthe road." In a moment there was a bustle in the house, but before anypreparation could be made the carriage was at the gate, and Mrs.Kinloch, accompanied by Squire Clamp, knocked at the door."Milly, you go into the kitchen with Mrs. Alford," said the farmer."I'll attend to matters for them.""No, Mr. Alford," she answered; "you are very good, but I think I'llstay and see them. Shan't I, Mark?"Mrs. Kinloch and the lawyer entered. She had left off her mourning,but looked as pale and thoughtful as ever. After the commoncourtesies, brief and cool in this case, Mrs. Kinloch made known hererrand. She had been grieved that Mildred should have left herfather's house and remained so long with strangers, and she had nowcome to beg her to return home. Mildred replied, that she had not lefthome without cause, and that she had no intention of going back atpresent. Mrs. Kinloch looked hurt, and said that this unusual conduct,owing partly to the common and wicked prejudice against step-mothers,had wounded her sorely, and she hoped Mildred would do her the simplejustice of returning to a mother who loved her, and would make everysacrifice for her happiness. Mildred said she did not wish to go overthe ground again; she thought she understood the love that had beenshown her; and she did not desire any further sacrifices, such as shehad witnessed. The request was renewed in various forms, but to nopurpose. Then Squire Clamp interposed with great solemnity, saying,that, if she had forgotten the respect and affection due to the motherwho had fostered her, she ought to know that the law had conferredupon him, as her guardian, the authority of a father, and he beggedher not to give him the pain of exercising the control which it wouldbe his bounden duty to use.Mr. Alford had been uneasy during this conversation, and broke in atthe first pause."Well, Square, I guess you'd best wait till 'bout next week-a-Thursdayafore you try to use your 'thority. Probate Court sets on Wednesday,an' I guess that'll 'bout wind up your business as guardeen."What a magazine of wrath that shot exploded! The lawyer was dumb for amoment, but presently he and Mrs. Kinloch both found breath for theirindignation.The woman turned first upon Mark. "This is your doing, Sir!""You do too much honor to my foresight," he replied. "I am heartilyglad that my good friend here was thoughtful enough and ready tointerfere for the protection of a fatherless girl.""Insolence!" shouted the lawyer."The impertinent puppy!" chimed in the woman."Come, come!" said the farmer, "too loud talkin'!""Then you uphold this girl in her undutiful behavior, do you?" askedMrs. Kinloch."You are amenable to the statutes, Sir," said the Squire.Mr. Alford rose to his feet. "Now you might jest as well get inter yerkerridge an' drive back ter town," said he; "you won't make one o'them hairs o' yourn black or white, Square, not by talkin' all day."The lawyer settled his wig in a foaming rage. "Come, Mrs. Clamp," saidhe, "we shall not remain here to be insulted. Let us go; I shall knowhow to protect our property, our authority, and honor, from theassault of adventurers and meddlers.""I beg your pardon, Sir," said Mark, "but what was the appellation yougave to the lady just now? You can call us what you like.""Mrs. Clamp, Sir," he answered, with a portentous emphasis,--"Mrs.Clamp,--united to me, Sir, this morning, by the Reverend Mr. Rook, inthe holy bands of matrimony."They swept out of the house. Mildred sank to her chair as if stunned."O God!" she said, "_my_ mother and father!""Poor gal!" said Mr. Alford, "small comfort you'll hev in sichparents. But cheer up; you won't need for friends."She looked up through her tears at Mark's manly face, full now ofsympathy, and blessed the farmer for his words.Mr. Alford, taking Mark aside, said, "You know about Lucy's runnin'away, most likely. Wal, now, ef she could be found, there's no knowin'what might happen; for it's my opinion she knows about SquareKinloch's affairs. I thought mebbe you might 'a' seen her in York?"Mark replied, that he did meet her in Broadway late one afternoon, andthat she looked as if she would speak; but that he hurried on, for theflaunting style of her dress was not calculated to prepossess thepassers by."Good gracious! you don't say so! Seen her yourself? Now do you goright back to York an' hunt her up--no matter what it costs.""But my uncle?""We'll look arter him."It was speedily determined, and Mark set out the same day. Meanwhile,Mildred had promised to go and see Mr. Hardwick and endeavor to makehim cheerful."It beats all," said Mr. Alford to his wife. "Now 'f he _should_ findthat unfort'nate gal! Wal, wal, I begin to think the Lord does lookarter things some, even in this world."We leave Squire Clamp and his new wife to their happiness; it wouldnot be well to lift the decent veil which drops over their household.The dark, perchance guilty, past,--the stormy present, and theretribution of the future,--let memory and conscience deal with them!CHAPTER XVI.Never was a little village in greater commotion than Innisfield afterMark's departure. The succession of events had been such as to engagethe attention of the most indifferent. The mysterious exile ofMildred, the failing health and spirits of the blacksmith, the newrumors respecting the fate of Lucy, the sudden and unaccountablemarriage of Mrs. Kinloch, and her fruitless attempt to bring herdaughter back, were all discussed in every house, as well as in placesof public resort. Hugh Branning was soon convinced that the villagewas no place for him. He had bravely horsewhipped a cripple, but hecould not stop the tongues of the whole parish, even if he couldprotect himself from swift and extempore justice. He gathered hisclothes, and, after a long private conference with his mother, startedbefore daylight for the railway-station. As he does not appear on thestage again, we may say here, that, not long after, during a financialpanic in New York, he made a fortune of nearly half a million dollarsby speculating in stocks. He used to tell his friends in after yearsthat he had "only five thousand to begin with,--the sole property lefthim by his lamented parents." He has now a handsome mansion in theFifth Avenue, is a conspicuous member of the Rev. Dr. Holdfast'schurch, and most zealous against the ill-timed discussions andphilanthropic vagaries of the day. What would he not give to forgetthat slowly-moving figure, with swimming eyes, carrying a flaringcandle? How far along the years that feeble light was thrown! He neverwent through the hall of his house at night without a shudder,dreading to catch a glimpse of that sorrowing face.It was on Tuesday evening, the night preceding the Probate Court towhich Squire Clamp had been cited. Nothing had been heard from Mark,and his friends were much depressed. Mildred sat by Mr. Hardwick'sbedside, during the long hours, and read to him from his favoriteauthors. About ten o'clock, just as the family were preparing to go tobed, Mark drove up to the door. He was warmly welcomed, and at onceoverwhelmed with questions. "Did he find Lucy?" "What did she know?""Why did she secrete herself?" To all these Mark merely replied, "Ifound Lucy; how much I have accomplished I dare not say. But do you,James, come with me. We will go up to old Mrs. Ransom's.""Why, she's not there; she's gone to the poor-house.""Broken down with old age and sorrow, I suppose. But I don't care tosee her now. Let us go to the old house; and meantime, you girls, goto bed."But they protested they should wait till he returned,--that they couldnot sleep a wink until they knew the result.Provided with a lantern, the young men set out. They found the hovelnearly in ruins; for pilferers had taken such pieces as they couldstrip off for firewood. Mark eagerly ripped up the floor near thehearth. At the first flash of the light he saw a paper, dusty anddiscolored. He seized and opened it. _It was the will of Mr. Kinloch,duly signed and attested_. Lucy had not deceived him.With hurried pace they returned to the village, scarcely stopping totake breath until they reached Mr. Hardwick's house. It was no vainhope, then! It was true! The schemes of the step-mother would befrustrated. The odious control of Squire Clamp would end. Mark beganto read the will, then stopped, embraced his cousins and Mildred byturns, then read again. He was beside himself with joy.All were too much excited to sleep; and when the first transports ofsurprise were over, they naturally inquired after the unfortunategirl. He had found her, after great difficulty, in a miserable garret.The surmises of the villagers were correct. She was ruined,heart-broken. Dissipation, exposure, and all the frightful influencesof her wretched life had brought on a fever, and now, destitute andforsaken, she was left by those who had made merchandise of herbeauty, to die. He learned from Lucy what she knew of the affair ofthe will. She became satisfied, soon after Mr. Kinloch's death, thatsome wrong was intended, and she watched her mistress. Then SquireClamp had induced her by threats and bribes to get for him the papers.As she took them out of the desk, one, larger than the rest, and withseveral seals, attracted her attention. She felt quite sure it was Mr.Kinloch's will; so she secreted it and gave the lawyer the rest. TheMonday afternoon following, she took the will to her grandmother's andput it under a plank in the floor. Squire Clamp, strangely enough,chanced to stop just as she had hidden it. He gave her back thepapers, as she supposed, and she replaced them in the secretary. Onher way home she fell in with Hugh,--a day neither of them would everforget.The lawyer, who had counted on an easy victory over Mr. Alford, wasgreatly surprised, the next day, to see him accompanied by Mark, as hecame into court; he had not heard of the young man's return. Besides,their unmistakable air of confidence and exultation caused him somemisgivings. But he was boldness itself, compared with his wife. Herface was bloodless, her hands tremulous, and her expression like thatof one ready to faint. Imagine the horror with which she saw theproduction of the will, and then the proof by the only survivingwitness, brought to court from his residence in a neighboring town!The letters of administration were revoked, and Mr. Alford, one of theexecutors, was appointed Mildred's guardian. Completely baffled, dumband despairing, Squire Clamp and his bride left the room and drovehomeward. A pleasant topic for conversation they had by the way, eachaccusing the other of duplicity, treachery, and folly! The willprovided that she should receive an annuity of one thousand dollars_during her widowhood_; so that the Squire, by wedding her, had a newincumbrance without any addition to his resources; a bad bargain,decidedly, he thought. She, on the other hand, had thrown away hersure dependence, in the hope of retaining the control of the wholeestate; for when she consented to marry Clamp, she had no doubt thathe had possession of the will and would, of course, keep it concealed.Seldom it is that _both_ parties to a transaction are so overreached.The successful party stopped at Mr. Hardwick's that evening toexchange congratulations. He, as well as Mildred and Mark, wasinterested in the lost will; for Mr. Kinloch had mentioned the fact ofthe unsettled boundary-line, and directed his executors to make aclear title of the disputed tract to the blacksmith. The shop was his;the boys, at all events, would be undisturbed. One provision in thewill greatly excited Mark's curiosity. The notes which he owed to theestate were to be cancelled, and there was an unexplained reference tohis uncle Hardwick and to some occurrences of long ago. Mildred atonce recalled to mind her father's dying words,--his calling for Mr.Hardwick, and his mention of the cabinet. She had often thought of hersearch in its drawers, and of her finding the lock of sunny hair andthe dried flower. And the blacksmith now, when asked, shook his headmournfully, and said, (as he had before,) "Sus-some time; nun-notnow!"CHAPTER XVII.The next day Mr. Alford came to town and advised Mark to marryforthwith."I've ben thinkin' it over," he said, "and I b'lieve it's the bestthing to be done. You've got a tough customer to deal with, and it maybe some trouble to git all the property out of his hands. But when theheiress is married, her husband can act for her to better advantage. Iguess I'll speak to Mr. Rook and have the 'fair 'tended to rightaway."Mark submitted the matter to Mildred, who blushed properly, andthought it rather hasty. But Mr. Alford's clear reasoning prevailed,and the time was appointed at once. Mark and Mr. Alford then went tocall upon the lawyer. They entered his office without knocking, and bychance found him busy with the accounts and papers; they werescattered over the table, and he was making computations. As soon ashe was aware of the presence of visitors, he made an effort to slidethe documents under some loose sheets of paper; but Mark knew the boldhand at once, and without a word seized the papers and handed them toMr. Alford."Not very p'lite, Square, I know," said Mr. Alford, "but possession isnine p'ints of the law, as I've heerd you say; and as you won't denythe handwritin', I s'pose you don't question my right to these 'ere."The rage of Mr. Clamp may be imagined."Good mornin', Square," said the triumphant executor. "When we'velooked over these affairs, we'll trouble you and the widder that was,to 'count for what the schedool calls for."The simple preparations for the wedding were soon made, and thehonest, great-hearted farmer had the pleasure of giving away thebride. It was a joyful, but not a merry wedding; both had passedthrough too many trials, and had too many recollections. And theevident decline of Mr. Hardwick made Mark sad and apprehensive. But hedevoutly thanked God, as he clasped his bride to his bosom, for theprovidence that had brought to him the fulfilment of his dearesthopes.Here we might stop, according to ancient custom, leaving our hero andheroine to their happiness. But though a wedding is always an event ofinterest, there are other things to be narrated before we have donewith our story.Not long after, Mark called at the Kinloch house, then occupied by Mr.Clamp; as a measure of precaution, he took Mr. Alford with him.Mildred had never regained her wardrobe; everything that was dear toher was still in her stepmother's keeping,--her father's picture, herown mother's miniature, the silver cup she had used from infancy, andall the elegant and tasteful articles that had accumulated in a housein which no wish was left ungratified. Ever since the session of theProbate Court, the house had been shut to visitors, if any there hadbeen. Mrs. Clamp had not been seen once out of doors. But afterwaiting a time, Mark and his friend were admitted. As they entered thehouse, the bare aspect of the rooms confirmed the rumors which Markhad heard. Mrs. Clamp received them with a kind of sullen civility,and, upon hearing the errand, replied,--"Certainly, Mrs. Davenport can have her clothes. She need not havesent more than one man to get them. Is that all?""Not quite," said Mark. "Perhaps you are not aware of the change whichthe discovery of the will may make in your circumstances. I do notspeak of the punishment which the fraud merits, but of the rightswhich are now vested in me. First, I am desired to ask after theplate, jewels, furs, and wardrobe of the first Mrs. Kinloch."Mrs. Clamp was silent. A word let fall by Lucy suddenly flashed intoMark's mind, and he intimated to the haughty woman his purpose to gointo the east front-chamber."Fine gentlemen," she said at length, "to pry into a lady's privateapartment! You will not dare enter it without my permission!"And she stood defiantly in the doorway. But, without parley, Mark andMr. Alford pushed by her and walked up the staircase, not heeding theshout of Mr. Clamp, who had followed them to the house."It might seem mean," said Mark to Mr. Alford; "but I think you'llagree presently, that it wasn't a case for ceremony."He stripped the clothes from the bed. The pillows were stuffed withvaluable furs; fine linen and embroideries filled the bolsters. Thefeather-sack contained dresses of rich and costly fabrics,--the stylesshowing them to be at least twenty years old. And in the mattress werestowed away the dinner and tea services of silver, together withporcelain, crystal, and Bohemian ware."What a deal o' comfort a body could take in sleepin' on a bed stuffedlike this 'ere!" said Mr. Alford; "I sh'd think he'd dream of the'Rabian Nights.""After this, Madam," said Mark, upon returning to the hall, "you canhardly expect any special lenity from me. The will allowed you anannuity of one thousand dollars while you remained single; since youare married your interest ceases, but you shall receive two hundred ayear. The house, however, belongs to my wife. Your husband there has ahome to which you can go.""Yes," said the lawyer, "he _has_ a home, and won't be beholden to anyman for a roof to shelter his family."The pride of the woman was still unbent. Though her cheek was blanchedand her lips were bitten blue, still she stood erect and her headturned queenly as ever. The glance she threw to the man who called herwife was enough to have pierced him. Turning to Mark, she said,--"If you will come to-morrow,--or Monday, rather,--you can havepossession of the house and property. My own things can be easilyremoved, and it will be a simple matter to make ready for new comers.""I could keep them out of it a year, if I chose," said Mr. Clamp."But I do not choose," said she, with superb haughtiness."Wal, good mornin'," said Mr. Alford.As they left the house, Mrs. Clamp sat down in the silent room.Without, the wind whistled through the naked trees and whirled upspiral columns of leaves; the river below was cased in ice; thepassers-by looked pinched with cold, and cast hurried glances overtheir shoulders at the ill-fated house and the adjacentburying-ground. Within, the commotion, the chill, the hurry, thefright, were even more intense. What now remained to be done? Her son,vanquished in love by a blacksmith's _protege_, had fled, and left herto meet her fate alone. The will had been discovered, and, as if by aspecial interposition of Providence, the victim of her son's passionshad been the instrument of vengeance. The lawyer who had worked uponher fears had proved unable to protect her. The estate was out of herhands; the property with which she had hoped to escape from the hatedtown and join her son was seized; she was a ruined, disgraced woman.She had faced the battery of curious eyes, as she walked with thehusband she despised to the Sunday services; but what screen had shenow that her pride was humbled? The fearful struggle in the mind ofthe lonely woman in the chill and silent room, who shall describe it?She denied admission to the servants and her husband, and through thelong evening still sat by the darkening window, far into the dim andgusty night.Squire Clamp went to bed moody, if not enraged; but when, on waking,he found his wife still absent, he became alarmed. Early in themorning he tracked her through a light snow, that had sifted downduring the night, to the river-bank, at the bend where the currentkeeps the ice from closing over. An hour after, some neighbors,hastily summoned, made a search at the dam. One of them, crossing theflume by Mr. Hardwick's shop, broke the newly-formed ice and therefound the drifting body of Mrs. Clamp. Her right hand, stretched outstiff, was thrust against the floats of the water-wheel, as if, evenin death, she remembered her hate against the family whose fortune hadrisen upon her overthrow!CHAPTER XVIII.Mark and Mr. Alford, after their disagreeable interview with theClamps, went to see Mr. Hardwick, whom they wished to congratulate. Atthe door they were met by Lizzie, whose sad face said, "Hush!" Mark'sspirits fell instantly. "Is he worse?" he asked. A tear was the onlyanswer. He asked Mr. Alford to go for Mildred. "She has just come,"said Lizzie.They found Mr. Hardwick propped up in bed, whence he could look out ofthe window. The church-spire rose on the one hand, and on the otherthe chimney of the shop was seen above the trees on the river-bank. Bynight the column of sparks had gladdened his eye, as he thought of thecheerful industry of his sons. Mark tenderly pressed his uncle's hand,and leaned over him with an affectionate, sorrowing interest."Der-don't take it to heart, my boy," said Mr. Hardwick. "I am veryh-happy.""I am glad that the boys won't lose the shop," said Mark. "I see youare looking out to the chimney.""Yer-yes, it was thoughtful of Mr. Kinloch, and a specialPr-Providence that the will was found.""You know he mentioned his claim against me," said Mark; "that ispaid, and it doesn't matter; but I can't guess the reason for theunusual kindness he has shown towards me."The old man answered slowly, for his breathing was difficult and oftenpainful."It is an old story,--old as the dried f-flowers that Mildred told meof,--but it had a f-fragrance once. Yer-your mother, Mark, was asper-pretty a girl as you'd often see. Walter Kinloch ler-loved her,and she him. He sailed to the Indies, an' some der-diff'cultyhappened, so that the letters stopped. I d-don't know how 'twas. Butarter a while sh-she married your father. Mr. Kinloch, he m-married,too; but I guess he nun-never forgot the girl of his choice."Mark grasped his young wife's hand, at this tale of years gone by."The lock of hair and the rose were your mother's, then!" shewhispered. "Dear father! faithful, even in death, to his friends, andto the memory of his first love! How much suffering and crime wouldhave been prevented, if he could only have uttered the words which hisheart prompted!""God forgive the woman!" said Mr. Hardwick, solemnly. None knew thenhow much she had need of forgiveness, standing as she was on the brinkof that last fatal plunge!Mr. Alford suggested that the fatigue of talking would wear upon theenfeebled man, and advised that he should be left to get some rest, ifpossible."To-morrow is S-Sabba'-day, ef I've counted right," said Mr. Hardwick."I sh-should like to see the sun on the st-heeple once more.""Dear uncle, I hope you may see it a great many times. We must leaveyou to rest.""Good-night, mum-my children," he replied. "God b-bless you all! Letme put my hands on your h-heads."They knelt by his bedside, and he blessed them fervently. Mr. Alfordand Lizzie remained to attend upon him, and the others withdrew.The night passed, how wearily! None could sleep, for through all theair there was a presage of sorrow, a solemn "tingling silentness," towhich their senses were painfully alive. Who, that has passed theinterminable gloomy hours that preceded the departure of a loved andvenerated friend into the world of spirits, does not remember thisunutterable suspense, this fruitless struggle with eternal decrees,this clinging of affection to the parting soul? What a sinking of theheart even the recollection of such a scene produces!The day dawned upon sleepless, tear-stained eyes. The dying man wasconscious, cheerful, and calmly breathing. In the adjoining room thefamily sat beside the table on which was spread their untastedbreakfast.The bell began to ring for meeting. Mr. Hardwick roused up at thesound, and called for his children. He blessed them again, and placedhis hands on their bowed heads in turn. He thought of the psalms whichhe had so often led, and he asked all to join in singing Billings's"Jordan."  "There is a land of pure delight,    Where saints immortal reign;  Infinite day excludes the night,    And pleasures banish pain."With faltering voices they sang the triumphal hymn. The old man'seyes were fixed upon the steeple, which pointed upward through theclear air, and shone in the golden light of the sun. He kept time witha feeble movement, and once or twice essayed to raise his own waveringvoice. A smile of heavenly beauty played over his pallid features asthe music ceased,--a radiance like that crimson glow which covers themountain-top at dawn. He spoke almost inaudibly, as if in a trance;then repeating with a musical flow the words of his favorite author,  "Where the bright seraphim in burning row  Their loud uplifted angel-trumpets blow,  And the cherubic host in thousand choirs  Touch their immortal harps of golden wires,  With those just spirits that wear victorious palms  Hymns devout and holy psalms  Singing everlastingly,"--his voice sank again, though it was easy to see that a prayer trembledon his lips. As a strain of music fades into silence, his tones fellaway, fainter and fainter; and with the same seraphic light on hiscountenance his breathing ceased.THE BIRTH-MARK.A.D. 12--.  See, here it is, upon my breast,--    The bloody image of a hand!  On her white bosom it was pressed,    Who should have nursed--you understand;--  I never yet have named her name,  Nor will I, till 'tis free from shame.  The good old crone that tended me    Through sickly childhood, lonely youth,  Told me the story: so, you see,    I know it is God's sacred truth,  That holy lips and holy hands  In secrecy had blessed the bands.  And well he knew it, too,--the accursed!--    To whom my grandsire gave his child  With dying breath;--for from the first    He saw, and tried to snare the wild  And frightened love that thought to rest  Its wings upon my father's breast.  You may have seen him riding by,--    This same Count Bernard, stern and cold;  You know, then, how his creeping eye    One's very soul in charm will hold.  Snow-locks he wears, and gracious art;  But hell is whiter than his heart.  Well, as I said, the secret rite    Had joined them, and the two were one;  And so it chanced, one summer night,    When the half-moon had set, and none  But faint star-shadows on the grass  Lay watching for his feet to pass,  Led by the waiting light that gleamed    From out one chamber-window, came  The husband-lover;--soon they dreamed,--    Her lips still murmuring his name  In sleep,--while, as to guard her, fell  His arm across her bosom's swell.  The low wind shook the darkened pane,    The far clock chimed along the hall,  There came a moment's gust of rain,    The swallow chirped a single call  From his eaves'-nest, the elm-bough swayed  Moaning;--they slumbered unafraid.  Without a creak the chamber-door    Crept open!--with a cat-like tread,  Shading his lamp with hand that bore    A dagger, came beside their bed  The Count. His hair was tinged with gray:  Gold locks brown-mixed before him lay.  A thrust,--a groan,--a fearful scream,    As from the peace of love's sweet rest  She starts!--O God! what horrid dream    Swells her bound eyeballs? From her breast  Fall off the garments of the night,--  A red hand strikes her bosom's white!  She knew no more that passed; her ear    Caught not the hurried cries,--the rush  Of the scared household,--nor could hear    The voice that broke the after-hush:--  "There with her paramour she lay!  He lies here!--carry her away!"  The evening after I was born    No roses on the bier were spread,  As when for maids or mothers mourn    Pure-hearted ones who love the dead;  They buried her, so young, so fair,  With hasty hands and scarce a prayer.  Count Bernard gained the lands, while I,    Cast forth, forgotten, thus have grown  To manhood; for I could not die--    I cannot die--till I atone  For her great shame; and so you see  I track him, and he flies from me.  And one day soon my hand I'll lay    Upon his arm, with lighter touch  Than ladies use when in their play    They tap you with their fans; yet such  A thrill will freeze his every limb  As if the dead were clutching him!  I think that it would make you smile    To see him kneel and hear him plead,--  I leaning on my sword the while,    With a half-laugh, to watch his need:--  At last my good blade finds his heart,  And then this red stain will depart.RAMBLES IN AQUIDNECK.I.NEWPORT BEACH.Newport has many beaches, each bearing a distinctive appellation. Tothe one of which we are speaking rightfully belongs the name ofEaston; but it is more widely known by that of the town itself, andstill more familiarly to the residents as "The Beach." It lies east ofthe city, a mile from the harbor, and is about half a mile in length.Its form is that of the new moon, the horns pointing southward.Let us go there now. No better time could be chosen by the naturalist,for the tide will be at its lowest ebb. Descending Bath Road, thebeautiful crescent lies before us on the right,--Easton's Pond, withits back-ground of farms, upon the left. There is no wind to-day tobreak the surface of the standing water, and it gives back the dwarfwillows upon its banks and the houses on the hill-side with more thanDaguerrian fidelity. The broad ocean lies rocking in the sunshine, notas one a-weary, but resting at his master's bidding, waiting to beginanew the work he loves. In the horizon, the ships, motionless in thecalm, spread all sail to catch the expected breeze. The waves idlychase each other to the shore, in childish strife to kiss first themother Earth.Turning the sea-wall and crossing a bit of shingle on the right, westand upon the western extremity of the beach.At our feet, a smooth, globular object, of the size of a crab-apple,is lying half-buried in the sand. Taking it in your hand, you find itto be a univalve shell, the inhabitant of which is concealed behind aclosely-fitting door, resembling a flake of undissolved glue.It is a Natica. Place it gently in this pool and watch for a fewmoments. Slowly and cautiously the horny operculum is pushed out,turned back, and hidden beneath a thick fleshy mantle, which spreadsover half the shell. Two long tentacles appear upon its front, likethe horns of an ox, and it begins to glide along upon its one hugefoot.Had you seen it thus at first, you could not have believed it possiblefor so bulky a body to be retracted into so small a shell. Lift itinto the air, and a stream of water pours forth as it contracts.Two kinds are common here, one of which has a more conical spire thanthe other. The animals differ somewhat in other points, but both havea cream-colored base, and a mantle of pale cream clouded with purple.You may get them from half an inch to three inches in diameter. Takethem home and domesticate them, and you will see surprising things.I kept one of middling size for many months. During two or three weeksI wondered how he lived, for he was never seen to eat. He used toclimb to the top of the tank and slide down the slippery glass asthough it were a _montagne russe_. Then he would wander about upon thebottom, ploughing deep furrows in the sand, and end by burrowingbeneath it. There he would stay whole days, entirely out of sight.One morning I found him on his back, his body bent upward, with theedge of the base turned in all round towards the centre. Did you eversee an apple-dumpling before it was boiled, just as the cook waspinching the dough together? Yes? Then you may imagine the appearanceof my Natica; but no greening pared and cored lay within that puckeredwrapper.Two days passed with no visible change; but on the third day thestrange gasteropod unfolded both himself and the mystery. From hislong embrace fell the shell of a Mactra, nearly as broad as his own.Near the hinge was a smooth, round hole, through which the poor Clamhad been sucked. Foot, stomach, siphon, muscles, all but a thin stripof mantle, were gone. The problem of the Natica's existence wassolved, and the verification was found in more than one Buccinum minusthe animal,--the number of the latter victims being still an unknownquantity.Not in sport had Natty driven the plough, not in idleness had hehollowed the sand. He sought his food in the furrow, and dug riches inthe mine.Doubtless he killed the bivalve,--for until the time of itsdisappearance it had been in full vigor,--but with what weapon? Andwhereabouts in that soft bundle was hidden the wimble which bored thehole?A few days after, a Crab, of the size of a dime, died. Nat soonlearned the fact, and enveloped the crustacean as he had done themollusk. Thirty hours sufficed to drill through the Crab'sfoundation-wall, and to abstract the unguarded treasure.Every week some rifled Trivittatum tells a new tale of his feloniousdeeds.His last feat was worthy of a cannibal, for it was the savage act ofdevouring a fellow-Natica. You might suppose that in this case thetrap-like operculum would afford an easy entrance to one familiar withits use; but, true to his secret system, the burglar broke in asbefore. How did he do this? Did he abrade the stone-work with flintysand until a hole was worn? Did he apply an acid to the limy walluntil it opened before him? Who can find the tools of the cunningworkman, or the laboratory where his corrodents are composed?Some rods farther south, the shore is covered with smooth stones, andthere you may find the Limpet in great numbers. Patella is the Latinname, but children call it Tent-Shell. Oval at the base, it slopesupward to a point a little aside from the centre.In this locality they are small, seldom more than an inch in length.At first, you will not readily distinguish them, they are so nearly ofthe color of the stones to which they are attached. This is one ofthose Providential adjustments by which the weak are rendered assecure as the strong. Slow in their movements, without offensiveweapons, their form and their coloring are their two great safeguards.The stones to which they adhere are variegated with brown and purpleblotches of incipient Coralline, and the shells are beautifullymottled with every shade of those colors. Some are lilac, heighteningnearly to crimson; others are dark chocolate and white, sharplycheckered.Pebbles and Patella alike are half-covered with Confervae, and fromthe top of the latter, fronds of Ulva are often found floating likeflags. I have one with a clump of Corallina rising from its apex, likea coppice on the summit of a hill.By atmospheric pressure, its union with the stone is so close that itis not easy to pull it away without injury; but if you slip it along,until by some slight inequality air is admitted beneath the hithertoexhausted receiver, the little pneumatician is obliged to yield.When turned upon its back, or resting against glass, the soft arms,sprawling aimlessly about, and the bare, round head, give it theappearance of an infant in a cradle, so that a tank well stocked withthem might be taken for a Liliputian foundling-hospital.They are as innocent as they look, being vegetable-feeders, andfinding most of their sustenance in matters suspended in the water. Afriend of mine placed several upon the side of a vessel coated withConferva. In a few days, each industrious laborer had mowed round hima circular space several times larger than himself.They are not ambulatory, but remain on one spot for successive weeks,perhaps longer.Sometimes they raise the shell so as to allow a free circulationbeneath; but if some predatory Prawn draw near, the tent is lowered ina twinkling, so as effectually to shut out the submarine Tartar.Tread warily, or you will trip upon the slimy Fucus that fringes theseaward side of every rock. This is one of the few Algae that growhere in luxuriance. The slate has not the deep fissures necessary toafford shelter to the more delicate kinds; and the heavy swell of thesea drags them from their slight moorings. Therefore, though Ulva,Chondrus, Cladophora, Enteromorpha, and as many more, are within ourreach, we will not stop to gather them; for Newport has other shores,where we can get them in full perfection.We will take some tufts of Corallina, however, for that is temptinglyfine. What a curious plant it is! Its root, a mere crustaceous disk,and its fronds, depositing shelly matter upon their surface, bear sostrong a resemblance to the true Corals, that, until recently,naturalists have thought it a zoophyte.Here the plants are of a dull brick-red; but in less exposedsituations they are purple. If you wish them to live and increase, youmust chip off a bit of the rock on which they are growing. With achisel, or even a knife, you can do it without difficulty, for thesoft slate scales and crumbles under a slight blow.For an herbarium, it ought to be gummed at once to the paper, for itbecomes so brittle, in drying, that it falls to pieces with the mostcareful handling. In the air and light it fades white, but theelegance of its pinnate branches will well repay any pains you maybestow upon it.If you have a lingering belief in its animal nature, steeping it inacid will cause the carbonate of lime and your credulity to disappeartogether, leaving the vegetable tissue clearly revealed.Between low-water and the Cliff are hundreds of pools rich invegetable and animal life--Look at this one: it is a lakelet ofexquisite beauty. Bordered with the olive-colored Rock-Weed, fronds ofpurple and green Laver rise from its limpid depths. Amphipods ofvaried hue emerge from the clustering weeds, cleave the clear waterwith easy swiftness, and hide beneath the opposite bank. Here agraceful Annelid describes Hogarth's line of beauty upon the sandybottom. There another glides over the surface with sinuous course,rowed by more oars than a Venetian galley, more brilliant in itsiridescence than the barge of Cleopatra, albeit    "The poop was beaten gold,  Purple the sails."We loiter here, forgetful that we are only at the first end of the bowalong whose curve we propose to walk. Let us go on. The firm sandaffords pleasanter footing than the slippery stones we leave behindus, but it seems bare of promise to the curiosity-hunter. Neverthelesswe will hunt, and quite at variance with my experience will it be, ifwe return empty-handed.Here is something already. Dark-colored, horny, flat, oblong, eachcorner furnished with a wiry, thorn-like projection;--what is it? Achild tells you it is a Mermaid's Purse, and, giving the empty bag ashake, you straightway conclude that the maids of the sea know "hardtimes," as well as those of the land. But the Purse is not always solight. Sometimes it is found to contain a most precious deposit, theegg which is to produce a future fish.These egg-cases belong to different members of the Ray family. I sawone last winter, in which the inmate was fully developed. Should someold seaman hear me, he might say that I am telling a "fish-story" ingood earnest. He might inform you furthermore, that the object inquestion is "but a pod of sea-weed, and that he has seen hundreds ofthem in the Gulf Stream." I cannot help it, neither do I question hisveracity. Notwithstanding, these two eyes of mine, in sound condition,awake, and in broad day, did see the supposed pericarp, with one sidetaken off, and did behold, lying within, as veritable a Raia as everwas caught upon the New-England coast. Moreover, its countenance wasno more classical, in its minuteness, than that of its most ancientancestor in its hugeness.Observe those bubbles trembling upon the edge of the wave. One is leftby the receding tide, and a nearer view shows it to be a jelly-likeglobe, clearer than the crystal of Merlin. Dropped softly into avessel of water, at first it lies quiescent and almost invisible uponthe bottom. A moment after, it rises in quick undulations, flashingprismatic tints with every motion. Again it rests, and we see that itis banded by eight meridians, composed of square, overlapping plates.It swims, and the plates become paddles, propelling the frail craft,--prisms, dividing the sunbeams into rainbow hues. Suddenly two lines ofgossamer are dropped from unseen openings in its sides, and trailedbehind it as it goes. Twisting, lengthening, shortening, they aredrawn back and re-coiled within, and      "The ethereal substance closed,  Not long divisible."This delicate wonder is the Cydippe. Though among the most charming ofmarine creatures, none is more liable to be overlooked, owing to itsextreme subtilty. So unsubstantial and shadowy are they, that a lady,on seeing them for the first time, declared them to be "the ghosts ofgooseberries." Indeed, you will find them ghost-like, if you attemptto keep them, for they      "Shrink in haste away  And vanish from our sight."The whole high-water line is strewn with the blanched and partedvalves of the Beach Clam. Here and there yellowish streaks appear uponthe gray sand, formed by the detritus of submarine shells. Among thefragments are often found perfect specimens, some of them with theliving animal.We can examine them as we go back, but now let us cross the "Creek."It is a creek only by courtesy or an Americanism, at the present day;but when those miles of fertile fields upon the north wereunreclaimed, the dank herbage hindered evaporation, and Easton's Pondwas fed by unfailing streams. Then the vast body of overflowing waterswept a deep channel, which the sea, rolling far up towards the pond,widened and made permanent. Boats came from ships in the offing, andfollowed its course to "Green End," with no fear of grounding; andtraditionary pirates there bestowed in secret caves their ill-gottengains.Now, the Creek is a mere streamlet, and the flow of the tide isrestricted to its mouth. With our rubbers we may ford it dry-shod; butif you choose to cross the bridge, we must wade through shifting sand,and our walk will be the longer. In midsummer the bed is dry, andalmost obliterated by the drift. On the approach of autumnal rains,the farmers plough a passage for the water, to prevent their landsfrom being submerged.On the east side, masses of conglomerate rock are strewn in wildconfusion. By the action of untold ages the connecting cement is wornaway from between the pebbles, leaving them prominent; and whereverthe attrition of the sea has loosened one from its bed, the hollow hasbecome the habitation of Mollusca and Algae.Beyond that ponderous boulder are many dark recesses among theoverlying stones. Strip back your sleeve, thrust in your hand, andgrope carefully about. In this way I once grasped a prickly thing thatstartled me. Drawing it to light, it proved to be an Echinus,Sea-Urchin, or Sea-Egg. That one was not larger than a walnut, wasshaped like a _brioche_, and resembled a chestnut-burr. Its color wasa delicate green, verging to brown.Much larger living Echini are found on this spot. There is a shellnow, more than two inches in diameter. It is wholly covered withspines half an inch in length. Radiating from a common centre,flexible at the base, they stand erect at right angles with the shellwhen the Urchin is in health; but in disease or death order is lost,and they lie across each other in great confusion. Their connectionwith the shell is very remarkable, for it is by a ball-and-socketjoint,--the same articulation which gives the human hip its marvellousliberty of action. Between them are five rows of minute holes, and, inlife, a transparent, hair-like foot is protruded from each, at thepleasure of the owner. When disposed to change its situation, itstretches forth those on the side towards which it would go, fixesthem by means of the sucker at the tip of each, and, simultaneouslywithdrawing those in the rear, pulls itself along.The mouth, placed in the centre of the base, is very large inproportion to the size of the animal. It is formed of five shelly,wedge-shaped pieces, each ending in a hard, triangular tooth. Thewhole mouth is a conical box, called by naturalists "Aristotle'slantern."The shell is hardly thicker than that of a hen's egg, and is even morefragile. When the spines are rubbed off, the brioche-like shape ismodified, and in place of the depression in the middle of the upperside there is seen a slight prominence.Mine was a very inoffensive creature. He occupied the same corner formany weeks, and changed his place only when a different arrangement ofstones was made. He then wandered to a remote part of the tank andchose a new abode. Both retreats were on the shady side of a stoneoverhung with plants. There for months he quietly kept house, onlygoing up and down his hand-breadth of room once or twice a day.Minding his own business without hurt to his neighbor, he dwelt inunambitious tranquillity. Had he not fallen a victim to the most cruelmaltreatment, he might still adorn his humble station.As he was sitting one evening at the door of his house, bending abouthis lithe arms in the way he was wont, two itinerant Sticklebackschanced to pass that way. They paused, and, not seeing the necessityfor organs of which they had never known the use, they at once decidedon their removal.In vain did the poor Hedgehog oppose them. With all the pertinacity ofignorance, they maintained their certainty of his abnormal condition;and with all the officiousness of quackery, they insisted uponimmediate amputation. Aided by two volunteer assistants, the self-madesurgeons cut off limb after limb before their reckless butchery couldbe stopped.At last I effected their dismissal. But their pitiable patient was toofar reduced for recovery. His exhausted system never rallied from theshock, and he survived but a few days.Alas! alas! that so exemplary a member of the community should haveperished through piscine empiricism!How many things you have collected! Your well-filled basket attestsyour industry and zeal, and suggests the fruitful question of thenovelist, "What will you do with it?" Will you throw its contents onthe sand, and go away satisfied with these imperfect glimpses ofsea-life? Will you take them home indeed, but consign them to acrowded bowl, to die like the prisoners in the Black Hole of Calcutta?Or will you give to each a roomy basin with water, and plants to keepit pure?This were well; and you could thus study their structure at leisure,but not their habits. To know the character of an individual, you mustwatch him among his fellows; you must observe his bearing to thesmall; you must see how he demeans himself in presence of the great.To do this, the surroundings must be such that none shall be consciousof restraint, but that every one, with homely ease, may act out hisown peculiar nature. In short, you must make ready for them anotherAtlantic, in all things but breadth like its grand prototype.Nor is this a difficult undertaking. By following the advice of someexperienced person, you may avoid all those failures which are apt toattend the experiments of a tyro. I will direct you to our pioneer inaquarian science, Mr. Charles E. Hammett. He can furnish you with allyou want, give you most efficient aid, and add thereto a great amountof practical information.You need have no fears for the population of your colony; for in ourfuture walks we shall meet new objects of beauty and interest, and insuch variety and abundance that your only embarrassment will be whichto choose.And now the ramble of to-day is ended. The "punctual sea" has risen,and, waking his dreaming waves, he gives to them their several tasks.Some, with gentle touch, lave the heated rock; these, swift of foot,bring drink to the thirsty sand; those carry refreshing coolness tothe tepid pool. Charged with blessings come they all, and, singing'mid their joyous labor, they join in a chorus of praise to their Godand our God; while from each of our hearts goes up the ready response,"Thou, Lord, hast made me glad through thy works, and I will rejoicein giving praise for the operations of thy hands!"ANN POTTER'S LESSON.My sister Mary Jane is older than I,--as much as four years. Fatherdied when we were both small, and didn't leave us much means besidethe farm. Mother was rather a weakly woman; she didn't feel as thoughshe could farm it for a living. It's hard work enough for a man to getclothes and victuals off a farm in West Connecticut; it's up-hill workalways; and then a man can turn to, himself, to ploughin' andmowin';--but a woman a'n't of no use, except to tell folks what to do;and everybody knows it's no way to have a thing done, to send.Mother talked it all over with Deacon Peters, and he counselled her tosell off all the farm but the home-lot, which was sot out for anorchard with young apple-trees, and had a garden-spot to one end ofit, close by the house. Mother calculated to raise potatoes and beansand onions enough to last us the year round, and to take in sewin'so's to get what few groceries we was goin' to want. We kept Old Red,the best cow; there was pasture enough for her in the orchard, for thetrees wa'n't growed to be bearin' as yet, and we 'lotted a good dealon milk to our house; besides, it saved butcher's meat.Mother was a real pious woman, and she was a high-couraged woman too.Old Miss Perrit, an old widder-woman that lived down by the bridge,come up to see her the week after father died. I remember all aboutit, though I wa'n't but ten years old; for when I see Miss Perritcomin' up the road, with her slimpsy old veil hanging off from herbumbazine bonnet, and her doleful look, (what Nancy Perrit used tocall "mother's company-face,") I kinder thought she was comin' to ourhouse; and she was allers so musical to me, I went in to theback-door, and took up a towel I was hemmin', and set down in thecorner, all ready to let her in. It don't seem as if I could 'a' beenreal distressed about father's dyin' when I could do so; but childrenis just like spring weather, rainin' one hour and shinin' the next,and it's the Lord's great mercy they be; if they begun to be feelin'so early, there wouldn't be nothin' left to grow up. So pretty quickMiss Perrit knocked, and I let her in. We hadn't got no spare room inthat house; there was the kitchen in front, and mother's bed-room, andthe buttery, and the little back-space opened out on't behind. Motherwas in the bed-room; so, while I called her, Miss Perrit set down inthe splint rockin'-chair that creaked awfully, and went to rockin'back and forth, and sighin', till mother come in. "Good-day, MissLangdon!" says she, with a kind of a snuffle, "how _dew_ you dew? Ithought I'd come and see how you kep' up under this here affliction. Irec'lect very well how I felt when husband died. It's a dreadful thingto be left a widder in a hard world;--don't you find it out by this?"I guess mother felt quite as bad as ever Miss Perrit did, foreverybody knew old Perrit treated his wife like a dumb brute while hewas alive, and died drunk; but she didn't say nothin'. I see her givea kind of a swaller, and then she spoke up bright and strong."I don't think it is a hard world, Miss Perrit. I find folks kind andhelpful, beyond what I'd any right to look for. I try not to thinkabout my husband, any more than I can help, because I couldn't work,if I did, and I've got to work. It's most helpful to think the Lordmade special promises to widows, and when I remember Him I a'n'tafeard."Miss Perrit stopped rockin' a minute, and then she begun to creak thechair and blow her nose again, and she said,--"Well, I'm sure it's a great mercy to see anybody rise above theirtrouble the way you do; but, law me! Miss Langdon, you a'n't gotthrough the fust pair o' bars on't yet. Folks is allers kinderneighborly at the fust; they feel to help you right off, every waythey can,--but it don't stay put, they get tired on't; they blazeright up like a white-birch-stick, an' then they go out all of a heap;there's other folks die, and they don't remember you, and you're justas bad off as though you wa'n't a widder."Mother kind of smiled,--she couldn't help it; but she spoke up againjust as steady."I don't expect to depend on people, Miss Perrit, so long as I have myhealth. I a'n't above takin' friendly help when I need to, but I meanmostly to help myself. I can get work to take in, and when the girlshave got their schoolin' they will be big enough to help me. I am notafraid but what I shall live and prosper, if I only keep my health.""Hem, well!" whined out Miss Perrit. "I allers thought you was apretty mighty woman, Miss Langdon, and I'm glad to see you're sohigh-minded; but you a'n't sure of your health, never. I used to bereal smart to what I am now, when Perrit was alive; but I took on so,when he was brought home friz to death that it sp'iled my nerves; andthen I had to do so many chores out in the shed, I got cold and hadthe dreadfullest rheumatiz! and when I'd got past the worst spell ofthat and was quite folksy again, I slipped down on our door-step andkinder wrenched my ankle, and ef't hadn't 'a' been for the neighbors,I don't know but what Nancy and I should 'a' starved."Mother did laugh this time. Miss Perrit had overshot the mark."So the neighbors were helpful, after all!" said she. "And if ever Iget sick, I shall be willin' to have help, Miss Perrit. I'm sure Iwould take what I would give; I think givin' works two ways. I don'tfeel afraid yet."Miss Perrit groaned a little, and wiped her eyes, and got up to goaway. She hadn't never offered to help mother, and she went off to thesewing-circle and told that Miss Langdon hadn't got no feelings atall, and she b'lieved she'd just as soon beg for a livin' as not.Polly Mariner, the tailoress, come and told mother all she said nextday, but mother only smiled, and set Polly to talkin' about the bestway to make over her old cloak. When she was gone, I begun to talkabout Miss Perrit, and I was real mad; but mother hushed me right up."It a'n't any matter, Ann," said she. "Her sayin' so don't make it so.Miss Perrit's got a miserable disposition, and I'm sorry for her; amint of money wouldn't make her happy; she's a doleful Christian, shedon't take any comfort in anything, and I really do pity her."And that was just the way mother took everything.At first we couldn't sell the farm. It was down at the foot ofTorringford Hill, two good miles from meetin', and a mile from theschool-house; most of it was woodsy, and there wa'n't no great marketfor wood about there. So for the first year Squire Potter took it onshares, and, as he principally seeded it down to rye, why, we sold therye and got a little money, but 'twa'n't a great deal,--no more thanwe wanted for clothes the next winter. Aunt Langdon sent us down a lotof maple-sugar from Lee, and when we wanted molasses we made it out ofthat. We didn't have to buy no great of groceries, for we could spinand knit by fire-light, and, part of the land bein' piny woods, we hada good lot of knots that were as bright as lamps for all we wanted.Then we had a dozen chickens, and by pains and care they laid prettywell, and the eggs were as good as gold. So we lived through the firstyear after father died, pretty well.Anybody that couldn't get along with mother and Major (I always calledMary Jane "Major" when I was real little, and the name kind of stayedby) couldn't get along with anybody. I was as happy as a cricketwhilst they were by, though, to speak truth, I wasn't naturally sochirpy as they were; I took after father more, who was a kind of adespondin' man, down-hearted, never thinkin' things could turn outright, or that he was goin' to have any luck. That was my natur', andmother see it, and fought ag'inst it like a real Bunker-Hiller; butnatur' is hard to root up, and there was always times when I wanted tosulk away into a corner and think nobody wanted me, and that I waspoor and humbly, and had to work for my living.I remember one time I'd gone up into my room before tea to have one ofthem dismal fits. Miss Perrit had been in to see mother, and she'dbeen tellin' over what luck Nancy'd had down to Hartford: how't shehad gone into a shop, and a young man had been struck with her goodlooks, an' he'd turned out to be a master-shoemaker, and Nancy wasa-goin' to be married, and so on, a rigmarole as long as the morallaw,--windin' up with askin' mother why she didn't send us girls offto try our luck, for Major was as old as Nance Perrit. I'd waited tohear mother say, in her old bright way, that she couldn't afford it,and she couldn't spare us, if she had the means, and then I flung upinto our room, that was a lean-to in the garret, with a winder in thegable end, and there I set down by the winder with my chin on thesill, and begun to wonder why we couldn't have as good luck as thePerrits. After I'd got real miserable, I heerd a soft step comin' upstairs, and Major come in and looked at me and then out of the winder."What's the matter of you, Anny?" said she."Nothing," says I, as sulky as you please."Nothing always means something," says Major, as pleasant as pie; andthen she scooched down on the floor and pulled my two hands away, andlooked me in the face as bright and honest as ever you see a dandelionlook out of the grass. "What is it, Anny? Spit it out, as John Pottersays; you'll feel better to free your mind.""Well," says I, "Major, I'm tired of bad luck.""Why, Anny! I didn't know as we'd had any. I'm sure, it's three yearssince father died, and we have had enough to live on all that time,and I've got my schooling, and we are all well; and just look at theapple-trees,--all as pink as your frock with blossoms; that's good fornew cloaks next winter, Anny.""'Ta'n't that, Major. I was thinkin' about Nancy Perrit. If we'd hadthe luck to go to Hartford, may-be you'd have been as well off as she;and then I'd have got work, too. And I wish I was as pretty as she is,Major; it does seem too bad to be poor and humbly too."I wonder she didn't laugh at me, but she was very feelin' for folks,always. She put her head on the window-sill along of mine, and kindernestled up to me in her lovin' way, and said, softly,--"I wouldn't quarrel with the Lord, Anny.""Why, Major! you scare me! I haven't said nothing against the Lord.What do you mean?" said I,--for I was touchy, real touchy."Well, dear, you see we've done all we can to help ourselves; andwhat's over and above, that we can't help,--that is what the Lordorders, a'n't it? and He made you, didn't He? You can't change yourface; and I'm glad of it, for it is Anny's face, and I wouldn't haveit changed a mite: there'll always be two people to think it's sightlyenough, and may-be more by-and-by; so I wouldn't quarrel with it, if Iwas you."Major's happy eyes always helped me. I looked at her and felt better.She wasn't any better-lookin' than I; but she always was so chirk, andsmart, and neat, and pretty-behaved, that folks thought she washandsome after they knowed her.Well, after a spell, there was a railroad laid out up the valley, andall the land thereabouts riz in price right away; and Squire Potter hebought our farm on speculation, and give a good price for it; so't wehad two thousand dollars in the bank, and the house and lot, and thebarn, and the cow. By this time Major was twenty-two and I waseighteen; and Squire Potter he'd left his house up on the hill, andhe'd bought out Miss Perrit's house, and added on to't, and moved downnot far from us, so's to be near the railroad-depot, for the sake ofbein' handy to the woods, for cuttin' and haulin' of them down to thetrack. Twasn't very pleasant at first to see our dear old woods goin'off to be burned that way; but Squire Potter's folks were such goodneighbors, we gained as much as we lost, and a sight more, for folksare greatly better'n trees,--at least, clever folks.There was a whole raft of the Potters, eight children of 'em all, sometoo young to be mates for Major and me; but Mary Potter, and Reuben,and Russell, they were along about as old as we were: Russell comebetween Major and me; the other two was older.We kinder kept to home always, Major and me, because we hadn't anybrothers to go out with us; so we were pretty shy of new friends atfirst. But you couldn't help bein' friendly with the Potters, they wassuch outspoken, kindly creturs, from the Squire down to little Hen.And it was very handy for us, because now we could go tosingin'-schools and quiltin's, and such-like places, of an evenin';and we had rather moped at home for want of such things,--at least Ihad, and I should have been more moped only for Major's sweet ways.She was always as contented as a honey-bee on a clover-head, for thesame reason, I guess.Well, there was a good many good things come to us from the Potters'movin' down; but by-and-by it seemed as though I was goin' to get thebitter of it. I'd kept company pretty steady with Russell. I hadn'tgive much thought to it, neither; I liked his ways, and he seemed togive in to mine very natural, so't we got along together first-rate.It didn't seem as though we'd ever been strangers, and I wasn't one tomake believe at stiffness when I didn't feel it. I told Russell prettymuch all I had to tell, and he was allers doin' for me and runnin'after me jest as though he'd been my brother. I didn't know how much Idid think of him, till, after a while, he seemed to take a sight ofnotice of Major. I can't say he ever stopped bein' clever to me, forhe didn't; but he seemed to have a kind of a hankerin' after Major allthe time. He'd take her off to walk with him; he'd dig up roots in thewoods for her posy-bed; he'd hold her skeins of yarn as patient as alittle dog; he'd get her books to read. Well, he'd done all this forme; but when I see him doin' it for her, it was quite different; andall to once I know'd what was the matter. I'd thought too much ofRussell Potter.Oh, dear! those was dark times! I couldn't blame him; I knew wellenough Major was miles and miles better and sweeter and cleverer thanI was; I didn't wonder he liked her; but I couldn't feel as if he'ddone right by me. So I schooled myself considerable, talking to myselffor being jealous of Major. But 'twasn't all that;--the hardest of itall was that I had to mistrust Russell. To be sure, he hadn't saidnothin' to me in round words; I couldn't ha' sued him; but he'd lookedand acted enough; and now,--dear me! I felt all wrung out and flungaway!By-and-by Major begun to see somethin' was goin' wrong, and so didRussell. She was as good as she could be to me, and had patience withall my little pettish ways, and tried to make me friendly withRussell; but I wouldn't. I took to hard work, and, what with cryin'nights, and hard work all day, I got pretty well overdone. But it allwent on for about three months, till one day Russell come up behindme, as I was layin' out some yarn to bleach down at the end of theorchard, and asked me if I'd go down to Meriden with him next day, toa pic-nic frolic, in the woods."No!" says I, as short as I could.Russell looked as though I had slapped him. "Anny," says he, "whathave I done?"I turned round to go away, and I catched my foot in a hank of yarn,and down I come flat on to the ground, havin' sprained my ankle so badthat Russell had to pick me up and carry me into the house like ababy.There was an end of Meriden for me; and he wouldn't go, either, butcome over and sat by me, and read to me, and somehow or other, I don'tremember just the words, he gave me to understand that--well--that hewished I'd marry him.It's about as tirin' to be real pleased with anything as it is to betroubled, at first. I couldn't say anything to Russell; I just cried.Major wasn't there; mother was dryin' apples out in the shed; soRussell he didn't know what to do; he kind of hushed me up, and beggedof me not to cry, and said he'd come for his answer next day. So hecome, and I didn't say, "No," again. I don't believe I stopped tothink whether Major liked him. She would have thought of me, firstthing;--I believe she wouldn't have had him, if she'd thought I wantedhim. But I a'n't like Major; it come more natural to me to think aboutmyself; and besides, she was pious, and I wasn't. Russell was.However, it turned out all right, for Major was 'most as pleased as Iwas; and she told me, finally, that she'd known a long spell thatRussell liked me, and the reason he'd been hangin' round her so longwas, he'd been tellin' her his plans, and they'd worked outconsiderable in their heads before she could feel as though he had agood 