ydney."This explanation was received in dead silence. Wylie fidgeted, and hiseye wandered round the room.General Rolleston applied his compasses to the chart. "I find that the_Proserpine_ was not one thousand miles from Easter Island. Why did younot make for that land?""We had no charts, sir," said Wylie to the merchant, "and I'm nonavigator.""I see no land laid down hereaway, northeast of the spot where the shipwent down.""No," replied Wylie, "that's what the men said when they made me 'boutship.""Then why did you lead the way northeast at all?""I'm no navigator," answered the man sullenly.He then suddenly stammered out: "Ask my men what we went through. Why,sir" (to Wardlaw), "I can hardly believe that I am alive, and sit heretalking to you about this cursed business. And nobody offers me a drop ofanything."Wardlaw poured him out a tumbler of wine. His brown hand trembled alittle, and he gulped the wine down like water.General Rolleston gave Mr. Wardlaw a look, and Wylie was dismissed. Heslouched down the street all in a cold perspiration; but still clingingto his three thousand pounds, though small was now his hope of everseeing it.When he was gone General Rolleston paced that large and gloomy room insilence. Wardlaw eyed him with the greatest interest, but avoidedspeaking to him. At last he stopped short, and stood erect, as veteranshalt, and pointed down at the chart."I'll start at once for that spot," said he. "I'll go in the next shipbound to Valparaiso: there I'll charter a small vessel, and ransack thosewaters for some trace of my poor lost girl.""Can you think of no better way than that?" said old Wardlaw, gently, andwith a slight tone of reproach."No--not at this moment. Oh, yes, by the by, the _Greyhound_ and_Dreadnaught_ are going out to survey the islands of the Pacific. I haveinterest enough to get a berth in the _Greyhound."_"What! go in a government ship! under the orders of a man, under theorders of another man, under the orders of a board. Why, if you heard ourpoor girl was alive upon a rock, the _Dreadnaught_ would be sure to runup a bunch of red-tape to the fore that moment to recall the _Greyhound,_and the _Greyhound_ would go back. No," said he, rising suddenly, andconfronting the general, and with the color mounting for once in hissallow face, "you sail in no bottom but one freighted by Wardlaw & Son,and the captain shall be under no orders but yours. We have bought thesteam-sloop _Springbok_, seven hundred tons. I'll victual her for ayear, man her well, and you shall go out in her in less than a week. Igive you my hand on that."They grasped hands.But this sudden warmth and tenderness, coming from a man habitually cold,overpowered the stout general. "What, sir," he faltered; "your own sonlies in danger, yet your heart goes so with me--such goodness--it is toomuch for me.""No, no," faltered the merchant, affected in his turn; "it is nothing.Your poor girl was coming home in that cursed ship to marry my son. Yes,he lies ill for love of her; God help him and me too; but you most ofall. Don't, general; don't! We have got work to do; we must be brave,sir; brave, I say, and compose ourselves. Ah, my friend, you and I are ofone age; and this is a heavy blow for us. And we are friends no more; ithas made us brothers. She was to be my child as well as yours; well, nowshe _is_ my child, and our hearts they bleed together." At this, thetruth must be told, the two stout old men embraced one another like twowomen, and cried together a little.But that was soon over with such men as these. They sat together andplunged into the details of the expedition, and they talked themselvesinto hope.In a week the _Springbok_ steamed down the Channel on an errand inspiredby love, not reason; to cross one mighty ocean, and grope for a lostdaughter in another.CHAPTER XIX.WE return to the cutter and her living freight.After an anxious but brief consultation, it was agreed that their bestchance was to traverse as many miles of water as possible while the windwas fair; by this means they would increase their small chance of beingpicked up, and also of falling in with land, and would, at all events,sail into a lovely climate, where intense cold was unknown and gales ofwind uncommon. Mr. Hazel advised them to choose a skipper, and give himabsolute power, especially over the provisions. They assented to this. Hethen recommended Cooper for that post. But they had not fathomed thesterling virtues of that taciturn seaman; so they offered the command toWelch, instead."Me put myself over Sam Cooper!" said he; "not likely."Then their choice fell upon Michael Morgan. The other sailors' names werePrince, Fenner and Mackintosh.Mr. Hazel urged Morgan to put the crew and passengers on short allowanceat once, viz., two biscuits a day, and four tablespoonfuls of water. ButMorgan was a common sailor; he could not see clearly very far ahead; and,moreover, his own appetite counteracted this advice; he dealt out a poundof biscuit and an ounce of ham to each person, night and morning, and apint of water in course of the day.Mr. Hazel declined his share of the ham, and begged Miss Rolleston soearnestly not to touch it, that she yielded a silent compliance.On the fourth day the sailors were all in good spirits, though theprovisions were now very low. They even sang and spun yarns. This waspartly owing to the beauty of the weather.On the fifth day Morgan announced that he could only serve out onebiscuit per day. And this sudden decline caused some dissatisfaction andalarm.Next day the water ran so low that only a teaspoonful was served outnight and morning.There were murmurs and forebodings.In all heavy trials and extremities some man or other reveals greatqualities, that were latent in him, ay, hidden from himself. And thisgeneral observation was verified on the present occasion, as it had beenin the Indian mutiny and many other crises. Hazel came out.He encouraged the men out of his multifarious stores of learning. Herelated at length stories of wrecks and sufferings at sea; which, thoughthey had long been in print, were most of them new to these poor fellows.He told them, among the rest, what the men of the _Bona Dea,_ waterloggedat sea, had suffered--twelve days without any food but a rat and akitten--yet had all survived. He gave them some details of the _Wager,_the _Grosvenor,_ the _Corbin,_ the _Medusa;_ but, above all, a mostminute account of the _Bounty,_ and Bligh's wonderful voyage in an openboat, short of provisions. He moralized on this, And showed hisfellow-sufferers it was discipline and self-denial from the first thathad enabled those hungry specters to survive, and to traverse twothousand eight hundred miles of water, in those very seas; and that inspite of hunger, thirst, disease and rough weather.By these means he diverted their minds in some degree from their owncalamity, and taught them the lesson they most needed.The poor fellows listened with more interest than you could have thoughtpossible under the pressure of bodily distress. And Helen Rolleston'shazel eye dwelled on the narrator with unceasing wonder.Yes, learning and fortitude, strengthened by those great exampleslearning furnishes, maintained a superiority, even in the middle of thePacific; and not the rough sailors only, but the lady who had rejectedand scorned his love, hung upon the brave student's words. She wascompelled to look up with wonder to the man she had hated and despised inher hours of ease.On the sixth day the provisions failed entirely. Not a crust of bread;not a drop of water.At 4 P. M. several flying-fish, driven into the air by the dolphins andcatfish, fell into the sea again near the boat, and one struck the sailsharply, and fell into the boat. It was divided, and devoured raw, in amoment.The next morning the wind fell, and, by noon, the ocean became likeglass.The horrors of a storm have been often painted; but who has described, orcan describe, the horrors of a calm, to a boatload of hungry, thirstycreatures, whose only chances of salvation or relief are wind and rain?The beautiful, remorseless sky was one vault of purple, with a greatflaming jewel in the center, whose vertical rays struck, and parched, andscorched the living sufferers; and blistered and baked the boat itself,so that it hurt their hot hands to touch it. The beautiful, remorselessocean was one sheet of glass, that glared in their bloodshot eyes, andreflected the intolerable heat of heaven upon these poor wretches, whowere gnawed to death with hunger; and their raging thirst was fiercerstill.Toward afternoon of the eighth day, Mackintosh dipped a vessel in thesea, with the manifest intention of drinking the salt water."Stop him!" cried Hazel, in great agitation; and the others seized himand overpowered him. He cursed them with such horrible curses that MissRolleston put her fingers in her ears, and shuddered from head to foot.Even this was new to her, to hear foul language.A calm voice rose in the midst and said: "Let us pray."There was a dead silence, and Mr. Hazel kneeled down and prayed loud andfervently; and, while he prayed, the furious cries subsided for a while,and deep groans only were heard. He prayed for food, for rain, for wind,for patience.The men were not so far gone but they could just manage to say "Amen."He rose from his knees and gathered the pale faces of the men together inone glance; and saw that intense expression of agony which physical paincan mold with men's features. And then he strained his eyes over thebrassy horizon; but no cloud, no veil of vapor was visible.  "Water, water everywhere, but never a drop to drink.""We must be mad," he cried, "to die of thirst with all this water roundus."His invention being stimulated by this idea, and his own dire need, heeagerly scanned everything in the boat, and his eyes soon lighted on twoobjects disconnected in themselves, but it struck him he could use themin combination. These were a common glass bottle, and Miss Rolleston'slife-preserving jacket, that served her for a couch. He drew this garmentover his knees and considered it attentively; then untwisted the brassnozzle through which the jacket was inflated, and so left a tube, somenine inches in length, hanging down from the neck of the garment.He now applied his breath to the tube, and the jacket swelling rapidlyproved that the whole receptacle was air-tight.He then allowed the air to escape. Next, he took the bottle and filled itwith water from the sea; then he inserted, with some difficulty and greatcare, the neck of the bottle into the orifice of the tube. This done, hedetached the wire of the brass nozzle, and whipped the tube firmly roundthe neck of the bottle. "Now, light a fire," he cried; "no matter what itcosts."The forethwart was chopped up, and a fire soon spluttered and sparkled,for ten eager hands were feeding it. The bottle was then suspended overit, and, in due course, the salt water boiled and threw off vapor, andthe belly of the jacket began to heave and stir. Hazel then threw coldwater upon the outside to keep it cool, and, while the men eagerlywatched the bubbling bottle and swelling bag, his spirits rose, and hetook occasion to explain that what was now going on under their eyes was,after all, only one of the great processes of Nature, done upon a smallscale. "The clouds," said he, "are but vapors drawn from the sea by theheat of the sun. These clouds are composed of fresh water, and so thesteam we are now raising from salt water will be fresh. We can't makewhisky, or brew beer, lads; but, thank Heaven, we can brew water; and itis worth all other liquors ten times told."A wild "Hurrah!" greeted these words. But every novel experiment seemsdoomed to fail, or meet with some disaster. The water in the bottle hadbeen reduced too low by vaporism, and the bottle burst suddenly, with aloud report. That report was followed by a piteous wail.Hazel turned pale at this fatal blow. But recovering himself, he said,"That is unfortunate; but it was a good servant while it lasted. Give methe baler; and, Miss Rolleston, can you lend me a thimble?"The tube of the life-preserver was held over the baler, and out trickleda small quantity of pure water, two thimblefuls apiece. Even that, as itpassed over their swelling tongues and parched swallows was a heavenlyrelief. But, alas, the supply was then exhausted.Next day hunger seemed uppermost and the men gnawed and chewed theirtobacco-pouches. And two caps that had been dressed with the hair on weredivided for food.None was given to Mr. Hazel or Miss Rolleston; and this, to do the poorcreatures justice, was the first instance of injustice or partiality thesailors had shown.The lady, though tormented with hunger, was more magnanimous; she offeredto divide the contents of her little medicine chest; and the globuleswere all devoured in a moment.And now their tortures were aggravated by the sight of abundance. Theydrifted over coral rocks, at a considerable depth, but the water was soexquisitely clear that they saw five fathoms down. They discerned smallfish drifting over the bottom; they looked like a driving cloud, so vastwas their number; and every now and then there was a scurry among them,and porpoises and dog-fish broke in and feasted on them. All this theysaw, yet could not catch one of those billions for their lives. Thus theywere tantalized as well as starved.The next day was like the last, with this difference, that the suffererscould no longer endure their torments in silence.The lady moaned constantly. The sailors groaned, lamented, and cursed.The sun baked and blistered, and the water glared.The sails being useless, the sailors rigged them as an awning, and saltwater was constantly thrown over them.Mr. Hazel took a baler and drenched his own clothes and Miss Rolleston'supon their bodies. This relieved the hell of thirst in some degree. Butthe sailors could not be persuaded to practice it.In the afternoon Hazel took Miss Rolleston's Bible from her wasted hands,and read aloud the forty-second Psalm.When he had done, one of the sailors asked him to pass the Bible forward.He did so; and in half an hour the leaves were returned him; the vellumbinding had been cut off, divided, and eaten.He looked piteously at the leaves, and, after a while, fell upon hisknees and prayed silently.He rose, and, with Miss Rolleston's consent, offered the men the leavesas well. "It is the Bread of Life for men's souls, not their bodies,"said he. "But God is merciful; I think he will forgive you; for your needis bitter."Cooper replied that the binding was man's, but the pages were God's; and,either for this or another more obvious reason, the leaves were declinedfor food.All that afternoon Hazel was making a sort of rough spoon out of afragment of wood.The night that followed was darker than usual, and, about midnight, ahand was laid on Helen Rolleston's shoulder and a voice whispered--"Hush!say nothing. I have got something for you."At the same time something sweet and deliciously fragrant was put to herlips; she opened her mouth and received a spoonful of marmalade. Neverdid marmalade taste like that before. It dissolved itself like ambrosiaover her palate and even relieved her parched throat in some slightdegree by the saliva it excited.Nature could not be resisted; her body took whatever he gave. But herhigh mind rebelled."Oh, how base I am," said she, and wept."Why, it is your own," said he soothingly; "I took it out of your cabinexpressly for you.""At least oblige me by eating some yourself, sir," said Helen, "or" (witha sudden burst) "I will die ere I touch another morsel.""I feel the threat, Miss Rolleston; but I do not need it, for I am very,very hungry. But no; if _I_ take any, I must divide it all with _them._But if you will help me unrip the jacket, I will suck the inside--afteryou."Helen gazed at him, and wondered at the man, and at the strange lovewhich had so bitterly offended her when she was surrounded by comforts;but now it extorted her respect.They unripped the jacket, and found some moisture left. They sucked it,and it was a wonderful and incredible relief to their parched gullets.The next day was a fearful one. Not a cloud in the sky to give hope ofrain; the air so light it only just moved them along; and the sea glared,and the sun beat on the poor wretches, now tortured into madness withhunger and thirst.The body of man, in this dire extremity, can suffer internal agony asacute as any that can be inflicted on its surface by the knife; and thecries, the screams, the groans, the prayers, the curses, intermingled,that issued from the boat, were not to be distinguished from the cries ofmen horribly wounded in battle, or writhing under some terrible operationin hospitals.Oh, it was terrible and piteous to see and hear the boat-load of ghastlyvictims, with hollow cheeks and wild-beast eyes, go groaning, cursing,and shrieking loud, upon that fair glassy sea, below that purple vaultand glorious sun.Toward afternoon, the sailors got together, forward, and left Hazel andMiss Rolleston alone in the stern. This gave him an opportunity ofspeaking to her confidentially. He took advantage of it, and said, "MissRolleston, I wish to consult you. Am I justified in secreting themarmalade any longer? There is nearly a spoonful apiece.""No," said Helen, "divide it among them all. Oh, if I had only a womanbeside me, to pray with, and cry with, and die with; for die we must.""I am not so sure of that," said Hazel faintly, but with a cool fortitudeall his own. "Experience proves that the human body can subsist aprodigious time on very little food. And saturating the clothes withwater is, I know, the best way to allay thirst. And women, thank Heaven,last longer than men, under privations.""I shall not last long, sir," said Helen. "Look at their eyes.""What do you mean?""I mean that those men there are going to kill me."CHAPTER XX.HAZEL thought her reason was going; and, instead of looking at the men'seyes, it was hers he examined. But no; the sweet cheek was white, theeyes had a fearful hollow all round them, but, out of that cave the lighthazel eye, preternaturally large, but calm as ever, looked out, full offortitude, resignation, and reason."Don't look at _me,"_ said she, quietly; "but take an opportunity andlook at _them._ They mean to kill me."Hazel looked furtively round; and, being enlightened in part by thewoman's intelligence, he observed that some of the men were actuallyglaring at himself and Helen Rolleston in a dreadful way. There was aremarkable change in their eyes since he looked last. The pupils seemeddiminished, the whites enlarged; and, in a word, the characteristics ofhumanity had, somehow, died out of those bloodshot orbs, and the animalalone shone in them now; the wild beast, driven desperate by hunger.What he saw, coupled with Helen's positive interpretation of it, wastruly sickening.These men were six, and he but one. They had all clasp-knives; and he hadonly an old penknife that would be sure to double up or break off if ablow were dealt with it.He asked himself, in utter terror, what on earth he should do.The first thing seemed to be to join the men and learn their minds. Itmight also be as well to prevent this secret conference from goingfurther.He went forward boldly, though sick at heart, and said, "Well, my lads,what is it?"The men were silent directly, and looked sullenly down, avoiding his eye;yet not ashamed.In a situation so terrible, the senses are sharpened; and Hazeldissected, in his mind, this sinister look, and saw that Morgan, Princeand Mackintosh were hostile to him.But Welch and Cooper he hoped were still friendly."Sir," said Fenner, civilly but doggedly, "we are come to this now, thatone must die, for the others to live. And the greater part of us are forcasting lots all round, and let every man, and every woman too, taketheir chance. That is fair, Sam, isn't it?""It is fair," said Cooper, with a terrible doggedness. "But it is hard,"he added."Harder that seven should die for one," said Mackintosh. "No, no; onemust die for the seven."Hazel represented, with all the force language possesses, that what theymeditated was a crime, the fatal result of which was known by experience.But they heard in ominous silence.Hazel went back to Helen Rolleston and sat down right before her."Well!" said she, with supernatural calmness."You were mistaken," said he."Then why have you placed yourself between them and me. No, no; theireyes have told me they have singled me out. But what does it matter? Wepoor creatures are all to die; and that one is the happiest that diesfirst, and dies unstained by such a crime. _I heard every word you said,sir."_Hazel cast a piteous look on her, and, finding he could no longer deceiveher as to their danger, and being weakened by famine, fell to tremblingand crying.Helen Rolleston looked at him with calm and gentle pity. For a moment,the patient fortitude of a woman made her a brave man's superior.Night came, and, for the first time, Hazel claimed two portions of therum; one for himself and one for Miss Rolleston.He then returned aft, and took the helm. He loosened it, so as to beready to unship it in a moment, and use it as a weapon.The men huddled together forward; and it was easy to see that the boatwas now divided into two hostile camps.Hazel sat quaking, with his hand on the helm, fearing an attack everymoment.Both he and Helen listened acutely, and about three o'clock in themorning a new incident occurred, of a terrible nature.Mackintosh was heard to say, "Serve out the rum, no allowance," and thedemand was instantly complied with by Morgan.Then Hazel touched Miss Rolleston on the shoulder, and insisted on hertaking half what was left of the marmalade, and he took the other half.The time was gone for economy; what they wanted now was strength, in casethe wild beasts, maddened by drink as well as hunger, should attack them.Already the liquor had begun to tell, and wild hallos and yells, and evenfragments of ghastly songs, mingled with the groans of misery in thedoomed boat.At sunrise there was a great swell upon the water, and sharp gusts atintervals; and on the horizon, to windward, might be observed a blackspot in the sky, no bigger than a fly. But none saw that; Hazel's eyenever left the raving wretches in the forepart of the boat; Cooper andWelch sat in gloomy despair amidships; and the others were huddledtogether forward, encouraging each other to a desperate act.It was about eight o'clock in the morning. Helen Rolleston awoke from abrief doze and said, "Mr. Hazel, I have had a strange dream. I dreamedthere was food, and plenty of it, on the outside of this boat."While these strange words were yet in her mouth, three of the sailorssuddenly rose up with their knives drawn, and eyes full of murder, andstaggered aft as fast as their enfeebled bodies could.Hazel uttered a loud cry, "Welch! Cooper! will you see us butchered?"and, unshipping the helm, rose to his feet.Cooper put out his arm to stop Mackintosh, but was too late. He did stopMorgan, however, and said, "Come, none of that; no foul play!"Irritated by this unexpected resistance, and maddened by drink, Morganturned on Cooper and stabbed him; he sank down with a groan; on thisWelch gave Morgan a fearful gash, dividing his jugular, and was stabbed,in return, by Prince, but not severely; these two grappled and rolledover one another, stabbing and cursing at the bottom of the boat;meantime, Mackintosh was received by Hazel with a point blank thrust inthe face from the helm that staggered him, though a very powerful man,and drove him backward against the mast; but, in delivering this thrust,Hazel's foot slipped, and he fell with great violence on his head andarm; Mackintosh recovered himself, and sprang upon the stern thwart withhis knife up and gleaming over Helen Rolleston. Hazel writhed round wherehe lay, and struck him desperately on the knee with the helm. The poorwoman knew only how to suffer; she cowered a little, and put up twofeeble hands.The knife descended.But not upon that cowering figure.CHAPTER XXI.A PURPLE rippling line upon the water had for some time been coming downupon them with great rapidity; but, bent on bloody work, they had notobserved it. The boat heeled over under the sudden gust; but the ruffianhad already lost his footing under Hazel's blow, and, the boom strikinghim almost at the same moment, he went clean over the gunwale into thesea; he struck it with his knife first.All their lives were now gone if Cooper, who had already recovered hisfeet, had not immediately cut the sheet with his knife; there was no timeto slack it; and, even as it was, the lower part of the sail wasdrenched, and the boat full of water. "Ship the helm!" he roared.The boat righted directly the sheet was cut, the wet sail flappedfuriously, and the boat, having way on her yielded to the helm andwriggled slowly away before the whistling wind.Mackintosh rose a few yards astern, and swam after the boat, with greatglaring eyes; the loose sail was not drawing, but the wind moved the boatonward. However, Mackintosh gained slowly, and Hazel held up an oar likea spear, and shouted to him that he must promise solemnly to forego allviolence, or he should never come on board alive.Mackintosh opened his mouth to reply; but, at the same moment, his eyessuddenly dilated in a fearful way, and he went under water, with agurgling cry. Yet not like one drowning, but with a jerk.The next moment there was a great bubbling of the water, as if displacedby some large creatures struggling below, and then the surface wasstained with blood.And, lest there should be any doubt as to the wretched man's fate, thehuge black fin of a monstrous shark came soon after, gliding round andround the rolling boat, awaiting the next victim.Now, while the water was yet stained with his life-blood, who, hurryingto kill, had met with a violent death, the unwounded sailor, Fenner,excited by the fracas, broke forth into singing, and so completed thehorror of a wild and awful scene; for still, while he shouted, laughed,and sang, the shark swam calmly round and round, and the boat crept on,her white sail bespattered with blood--which was not so before--and inher bottom lay one man dead as a stone; and two poor wretches, Prince andWelch, their short-lived feud composed forever, sat openly sucking theirbleeding wounds, to quench for a moment their intolerable thirst.Oh, little do we, who never pass a single day without bite or sup, knowthe animal Man, in these dire extremities.CHAPTER XXII.AT last Cooper ordered Fenner to hold his jaw, and come aft, and helpsail the boat.But the man, being now stark mad, took no notice of the order. Hismadness grew on him, and took a turn by no means uncommon in these cases.He saw before him sumptuous feasts, and streams of fresh water flowing.These he began to describe with great volubility and rapture, smackinghis lips and exulting. And so he went on tantalizing them till noon.Meantime, Cooper asked Mr. Hazel if he could sail the boat."I can steer," said he, "but that is all. My right arm is benumbed."The silvery voice of Helen Rolleston then uttered brave and welcomewords. "I will do whatever you tell me, Mr. Cooper.""Long life to you, miss!" said the wounded seaman. He then directed herhow to reef the sail, and splice the sheet which he had been obliged tocut; and, in a word, to sail the boat; which she did with some littleassistance from Hazel.And so they all depended upon her, whom some of them had been forkilling. And the blood-stained boat glided before the wind.At two P. M. Fenner jumped suddenly up, and, looking at the sea withrapture, cried out, "Aha! my boys, here's a beautiful green meadow; andthere's a sweet brook with bulrushes. Green, green, green! Let's have aroll among the daisies." And in a moment, ere any of his stiff andwounded shipmates could put out a hand, he threw himself on his back uponthe water, and sunk forever, with inexpressible rapture on hiscorpse-like face.A feeble groan was the only tribute those who remained behind couldafford him.At three P. M. Mr. Hazel happened to look over the weather-side of theboat, as she heeled to leeward under a smart breeze, and he saw a shellor two fastened to her side, about eleven inches above keel. He lookedagain, and gave a loud hurrah. "Barnacles! barnacles!" he cried. "I seethem sticking."He leaned over, and, with some difficulty, detached one, and held it up.It was not a barnacle, but a curious oblong shell-fish, open at one end.At sight of this, the wounded forgot their wounds, and leaned over theboat's side, detaching the shell-fish with their knives. They broke themwith the handles of their knives, and devoured the fish. They were asthick as a man's finger and about an inch long, and as sweet as a nut. Itseems that in the long calm these shellfish had fastened on the boat.More than a hundred of them were taken off her weather-side, and evenlydivided.Miss Rolleston, at Hazel's earnest request, ate only six, and these veryslowly, and laid the rest by. But the sailors could not restrainthemselves; and Prince, in particular, gorged himself so fiercely that heturned purple in the face, and began to breathe very hard.That black speck on the horizon had grown by noon to a beetle, and bythree o'clock to something more like an elephant, and it now diffuseditself into a huge black cloud, that gradually overspread the heavens;and at last, about half an hour before sunset, came a peculiar chill, andthen, in due course, a drop or two fell upon the parched wretches. Theysat, less like animals than like plants, all stretching toward theirpreserver.Their eyes were turned up to the clouds, so were their open mouths, andtheir arms and hands held up toward it.The drops increased in number, and praise went up to Heaven in return.Patter, patter, patter; down came a shower, a rain--a heavy, steady rain.With cries of joy, they put out every vessel to catch it; they loweredthe sail, and, putting ballast in the center, bellied it into a greatvessel to catch it. They used all their spare canvas to catch it. Theyfilled the water-cask with it; they filled the keg that had held thefatal spirit; and all the time they were sucking the wet canvas, andtheir own clothes, and their very hands and garments on which thelife-giving drops kept falling.Then they set their little sail again, and prayed for land to Him who hadsent the wind and rain.CHAPTER XXIII.THE breeze declined at sunset; but it rained at intervals during thenight; and by morning they were somewhat chilled.Death had visited them again during the night. Prince was discovered deadand cold; his wounds were mere scratches, and there seems to be no doubtthat he died by gorging himself with more food than his enfeebled systemcould possibly digest.Thus dismally began a day of comparative bodily comfort, but mentaldistress, especially to Miss Rolleston and Mr. Hazel.Now that this lady and gentleman were no longer goaded to madness byphysical suffering, their higher sensibilities resumed their naturalforce, and the miserable contents of the blood-stained boat shocked themterribly. Two corpses and two wounded men.Mr. Hazel, however, soon came to one resolution, and that was to read thefuneral service over the dead, and then commit them to the deep. Hedeclared this intention, and Cooper, who, though wounded, and apparentlysinking, was still skipper of the boat, acquiesced readily.Mr. Hazel then took the dead men's knives and their money out of theirpockets, and read the burial service over them; they were then committedto the deep. This sad ceremony performed, he addressed a few words to thesurvivors."My friends, and brothers in affliction, we ought not to hope too muchfrom Divine mercy for ourselves; or we should come soon to forget Divinejustice. But we are not forbidden to hope for others. Those who are nowgone were guilty of a terrible crime; but then they were tempted morethan their flesh could bear; and they received their punishment here onearth. We may therefore hope they will escape punishment hereafter. Andit is for us to profit by their fate, and bow to Heaven's will. Even whenthey drew their knives, food in plenty was within their reach, and thesigns of wind were on the sea, and of rain in the sky. Let us be morepatient than they were, and place our trust-- What is that upon the waterto leeward? A piece of wood floating?"Welch stood up and looked. "Can't make it out. Steer alongside it, miss,if you please." And he crept forward.Presently he became excited, and directed those in the stern how to steerthe boat close to the object without going over it. He begged them all tobe silent. He leaned over the boat side as they neared it. He clutched itsuddenly with both hands and flung it into the boat with a shout oftriumph, but sank exhausted by the effort.It was a young turtle; and being asleep on the water, or inexperienced,had allowed them to capture it.This was indeed a godsend--twelve pounds of succulent meat. It wasinstantly divided, and Mr. Hazel contrived, with some difficulty, to boila portion of it. He enjoyed it greatly; but Miss Rolleston showed acurious and violent antipathy to it, scarcely credible under thecircumstances. Not so the sailors. They devoured it raw, what they couldget at all. Cooper could only get down a mouthful or two. He had receivedhis death-wound, and was manifestly sinking.He revived, however, from time to time, and spoke cheerfully, whenever hespoke at all. Welch informed him of every incident that took place,however minute. Then he would nod, or utter a syllable or two.On being told that they were passing through sea-weed, he expressed awish to see some of it, and when he had examined it, he said to Hazel,"Keep up your heart, sir; you are not a hundred miles from land." Headded gently, after a pause, "But I am bound for another port."About five in the afternoon, Welch came aft, with the tears in his eyes,to say that Sam was just going to slip his cable, and had something tosay to them.They went to him directly, and Hazel took his hand and exhorted him toforgive all his enemies. "Hain't a got none," was the reply.Hazel then, after a few words of religious exhortation and comfort, askedhim if he could do anything for him."Ay," said Cooper, solemnly. "Got pen and ink aboard, any of ye?""I have a pencil," said Helen, earnestly; then, tearfully, "Oh, dear! itis to make his will." She opened her prayer-book, which had two blankleaves under each cover.The dying man saw them, and rose into that remarkable energy whichsometimes precedes the departure of the soul."Write!" said he in his deep, full tones."I, Samuel Cooper, able seaman, am going to slip my cable, and sail intothe presence of my Maker."He waited till this was written."And so I speak the truth."The ship _Proserpine_ was destroyed willful."The men had more allowance than they signed for."The mate was always plying the captain with liquor."Two days before ever the ship leaked, the mate got the long-boat ready."When the _Proserpine_ sank, we was on her port quarter, aboard thecutter, was me and my messmate Tom Welch."We saw two auger-holes in her stern, about two inches diameter."Them two holes was made from within, for the splinters showed outside."She was a good ship, and met with no stress of weather to speak of, onthat voyage."Joe Wylie scuttled her and destroyed her people."D--n his eyes!"Mr. Hazel was shocked at this finale; but he knew what sailors are, andhow little meaning there is in their set phrases. However, as aclergyman, he could not allow these to be Cooper's last words; so he saidearnestly, "Yes, but, my poor fellow, you said you forgave all yourenemies. We all need forgiveness, you know.""That is true, sir.""And you forgive this Wylie, do you not?""Oh, Lord, yes," said Cooper, faintly. "I forgive the lubber; d--n him!"Having said these words with some difficulty, he became lethargic, and soremained for two hours. Indeed, he spoke but once more, and that was toWelch; though they were all about him then. "Messmate," said he, in avoice that was now faint and broken, "you and I must sail together onthis new voyage. I'm going out of port first; but" (in a whisper ofinconceivable tenderness and simple cunning) "I'll lie to outside theharbor till you come out, my boy." Then he paused a moment. Then he addedsoftly, "For I love you, Tom."These sweet words were the last of that rugged, silent sailor, who neverthrew a word away, and whose rough breast inclosed a friendship as of theancient world, tender, true and everlasting: that sweetened his life andennobled his death. As he deserved mourners, so he had true ones.His last words went home to the afflicted hearts that heard them, and thelady and gentleman, whose lives he had saved at cost of his own, weptaloud over their departed friend. But his messmate's eye was dry. Whenall was over, he just turned to the mourners and said gravely, "Thank ye,sir; thank ye kindly, ma'am." And then he covered the body decently withthe spare canvas, and lay quietly, down with his own head pillowed uponthose loved remains.Toward afternoon, seals were observed sporting on the waters; but noattempt was made to capture them. Indeed, Miss Rolleston had quite enoughto do to sail the boat with Mr. Hazel's assistance.The night passed, and the morning brought nothing new; except that theyfell in with sea-weed in such quantities the boat could hardly getthrough it.Mr. Hazel examined this sea-weed carefully and brought several kinds upondeck. Among the varieties was one like thin green strips of spinach, verytender and succulent. His botanical researches included sea-weed, and herecognized this as one of the edible rock-weeds.There was very little of it comparatively, but he took great pains, and,in two hours' time, had gathered as much as might fill a good-sizedslop-basin.He washed it in fresh water, and then asked Miss Rolleston for apocket-handkerchief. This he tied so as to make a bag, and contrived toboil it with the few chips of fuel that remained on board.After he had boiled it ten minutes, there was no more fuel, except a bowlor two, and the boat-hook, one pair of oars, and the midship and sternthwarts.He tasted it, and found it glutinous and delicious; he gave MissRolleston some, and then fed Welch with the rest. He, poor fellow,enjoyed this sea spinach greatly; he could no longer swallow meat.While Hazel was feeding him, a flight of ducks passed over their heads,high in the air.Welch pointed up at them."Ah!" said Helen, "if we had but their wings!"Presently a bird was seen coming in the same direction, but flying verylow; it wabbled along toward them very slowly, and at last, to theirgreat surprise, came flapping and tried to settle on the gunwale of theboat. Welch, with that instinct of slaughter which belongs to men, struckthe boat-hook into the bird's back, and it was soon dispatched. It provedto be one of that very flock of ducks that had passed over their heads,and a crab was found fastened to its leg. It is supposed that the bird,to break its long flight, had rested on some reef, and perhaps been toobusy fishing; and caught this Tartar.Hazel pounced upon it. "Heaven has sent this for you, because you cannoteat turtle." But the next moment he blushed and recovered his reason."See," said he, referring to her own words, "this poor bird had wings,yet death overtook her."He sacrificed a bowl for fuel, and boiled the duck and the crab in onepot, and Miss Rolleston ate demurely but plentifully of both. Of thecrab's shell he made a little drinking-vessel for Miss Rolleston.Cooper remained without funeral rites all this time; the reason was thatWelch lay with his head pillowed upon his dead friend, and Hazel had notthe heart to disturb him.But it was the survivors' duty to commit him to the deep, and so Hazelsat down by Welch, and asked him kindly whether he would not wish theservices of the Church to be read over his departed friend."In course, sir," said Welch. But the next moment he took Hazel'smeaning, and said hurriedly, "No, no; I can't let Sam be buried in thesea. Ye see, sir, Sam and I, we are used to one another, and I can'tabide to part with him, alive or dead.""Ah!" said Hazel, "the best friends must part when death takes one.""Ay, ay, when t'other lives. But, Lord bless you, sir! I shan't be longastarn of my messmate here; can't you see that?""Heaven forbid!" said Hazel, surprised and alarmed. "Why, you are notwounded mortally, as Cooper was. Have a good heart, man, and we threewill all see old England yet.""Well, sir," said Welch, coolly, "I'll tell ye. Me and my shipmate,Prince, was a cutting at one another with our knives a smart time (and Ido properly wonder, when I think of that day's work, for I liked the manwell enough, but rum atop of starvation plays hell with seafaring men),well, sir, as I was a saying, he let more blood out of me than I couldafford to lose under the circumstances. And, ye see, I can't make freshblood, because my throat is so swelled by the drought I can't swallowmuch meat, so I'm safe to lose the number of my mess; and, another thing,my heart isn't altogether set toward living. Sam, here, he give me anorder; what, didn't ye hear him? 'I'll lie to outside the bar,' says he,'till you come out.' He expects me to come out in his wake. Don't ye,Sam--that was?" and he laid his hand gently on the remains. "Now, sir, Ishall ax the lady and you a favor. I want to lie alongside Sam. But ifyou bury him in the sea, and me ashore, why, d--n my eyes if I shan't bea thousand years or so before I can find my own messmate. Etarnity is a'nation big place, I'm told, a hundred times as big as both oceans. No,sir; you'll make land, by Sam's reckoning, tomorrow or next day, wind andtide permitting. I'll take care of Sam's hull till then, and we'll lietogether till the angel blows that there trumpet; and then we'll go alofttogether, and, as soon as ever we have made our scrape to our betters,we'll both speak a good word for you and the lady, a very pretty lady sheis, and a good-hearted, and the best plucked one I ever did see in anydistressed craft; now don't ye cry, miss, don't ye cry, your trouble ispretty near over; _he_ said you was not a hundred miles from land. Idon't know how he knew that, he was always a better seaman than I be; butsay it he did, and that is enough, for he was a man as never told a lie,nor wasted a word."Welch could utter no more just then; for the glands of his throat wereswollen, and he spoke with considerable difficulty.What could Hazel reply? The judgment is sometimes ashamed to contradictthe heart with cold reasons.He only said, with a sigh, that he saw no signs of land, and believedthey had gone on a wrong course, and were in the heart of the Pacific.Welch made no answer, but a look of good-natured contempt. The idea ofthis parson contradicting Sam Cooper!The sun broke, and revealed the illimitable ocean; themselves a tinyspeck on it.Mr. Hazel whispered Miss Rolleston that Cooper _must_ be buried to-day.At ten P.M. they passed through more sea-weed; but this time they had toeat the sea spinach raw, and there was very little of it.At noon the sea was green in places.Welch told them this was a sign they were nearing land.At four P.M. a bird, about the size and color of a woodpecker, settled onthe boat's mast.Their glittering eyes fastened on it; and Welch said, "Come, there's asupper for you as _you_ can eat it.""No, poor thing!" said Helen Rolleston."You are right," said Hazel, with a certain effort of self-restraint."Let our sufferings make us gentle, not savage. That poor bird is lostlike us upon this ocean. It is a land-bird.""How do you know?""Water-birds have webbed feet--to swim with." The bird, having rested,flew to the northwest.Helen, by one of those inspired impulses her sex have, altered the boat'scourse directly, and followed the bird.Half an hour before sunset, Helen Rolleston, whose vision was very keen,said she saw something at the verge of the horizon, like a hair standingupright.Hazel looked, but could not see anything.In ten minutes more, Helen Rolleston pointed it out again; and then Hazeldid see a vertical line, more like a ship's mast than anything else onecould expect to see there.Their eyes were now strained to make it out, and, as the boat advanced,it became more and more palpable, though it was hard to say exactly whatit was.Five minutes before the sun set, the air being clearer than ever, itstood out clean against the-sky. A tree--a lofty, solitary tree; with atall stem, like a column, and branches only at the top.A palm-tree--in the middle of the Pacific.CHAPTER XXIV.AND but for the land-bird which rested on their mast, and for their ownmercy in sparing it, they would have passed to the eastward, and neverseen that giant palm-tree in mid-ocean."Oh, let us put out all our sails, and fly to it!" cried Helen.Welch smiled and said, "No, miss, ye mustn't. Lord love ye; what! run onto a land ye don't know, happy go lucky, in the dark, like that? Lay herhead for the tree, and welcome, but you must lower the mainsel andtreble-reef the foresel; and so creep on a couple of knots an hour, and,by daybreak, you'll find the island close under your lee. Then you canlook out for a safe landing-place.""The island, Mr. Welch!" said Helen."There is no island, or I should have seen it.""Oh, the island was hull down. Why, you don't think as palm-trees grow inthe water? You do as I say, or you'll get wrecked on some thundering reefor other."Upon this Mr. Hazel and Miss Rolleston set to work, and, withconsiderable difficulty lowered the mainsail, and treblereefed theforesail."That is right," said Welch. "To-morrow you'll land in safety, and burymy messmate and me.""Oh, no!" cried Helen Rolleston. "We must bury him, but we mean to cureyou." They obeyed Welch's instructions, and so crept on all night; and,so well had this able seaman calculated distance and rate of sailing,that, when the sun rose, sure enough there was an island under their lee,distant about a league, though it looked much less. But the palm-tree wasmore than twice that distance. Owing to wind and current they had madelee-way all night, and that tree stood on the most westerly point of theisland.Hazel and Miss Rolleston stood up and hurrahed for joy; then fell ontheir knees in silent gratitude. Welch only smiled.The breeze had freshened, and, though there were no great waves at sea,yet breakers, formidable to such a craft as theirs, were seen foamingover long disjointed reefs ahead, that grinned black and dangerous hereand there.They then consulted Welch, and he told them they must tack directly, andmake a circuit of the island; he had to show them how to tack; and, thesea rising, they got thoroughly wetted, and Miss Rolleston ratherfrightened; for here was a peril they had wonderfully escaped hitherto.However, before eleven o'clock, they had stood out to sea, and coastedthe whole south side of the island. They then put the boat before thewind, and soon ran past the east coast, which was very narrow--in fact, asort of bluff-head--and got on the north side of the island. Here thewater was comparatively smooth, and the air warm and balmy. They rangedalong the coast at about a mile's distance, looking out for a goodlanding.Here was no longer an unbroken line of cliffs, but an undulating shore,with bulging rocks, and lines of reef. After a mile or two of that thecoast ran out seaward, and they passed close to a most extraordinaryphenomenon of vegetation. Great tangled woods crowned the shore and thelandward slopes, and their grand foliage seemed to flow over into thesea; for here was a broad rocky flat intersected with a thousand littlechannels of the sea; and the thousand little islets so formed werecrowded, covered and hidden with luxuriant vegetation. Huge succulentleaves of the richest hue hung over the water, and some of the mostadventurous of them showed, by the crystals that sparkled on their greensurface, that the waves had actually been kissing them at high tide. Thisceased, and they passed right under a cliff, wooded nearly to the point.This cliff was broad and irregular, and in one of its cavities a cascadeof pure fresh water came sparkling, leaping and tumbling down to the footof the rock. There it had formed a great basin of water, cool, deep,transparent, which trickled over on to a tongue of pink sand and went intwo crystal gutters to the sea.Great and keen was the rapture this sight caused our poor parchedvoyagers; and eager their desire to land at once, if possible, and plungetheir burning lips, and swelling throats, and fevered hands into thatheavenly liquid; but the next moment they were diverted from that purposeby the scene that burst on them.This wooded cliff, with its wonderful cascade, was the very gate ofparadise. They passed it, and in one moment were in a bay--a sudden bay,wonderfully deep for its extent, and sheltered on three sides. Broadsands with rainbow tints, all sparkling, and dotted with birds, somewhite as snow, some gorgeous. A peaceful sea of exquisite blue kissingthese lovely sands with myriad dimples; and, from the land side, softemerald slopes, embroidered with silver threads of water, came to thevery edge of the sands. So that, from all those glorious hues, thatflecked the prismatic and sparkling sands, the eye of the voyagers passedat once to the vivid, yet sweet and soothing green of Nature; and overthis paradise the breeze they could no longer feel wafted spicy butdelicate odors from unseen trees.Even Welch raised himself in the boat, and sniffed the heavenly air, andsmiled at the heavenly spot. "Here's a blessed haven!" said he. "Downsail, and row her ashore."CHAPTER XXV.THEY rowed more than a mile, so deep was the glorious bay; and then theiroars struck the ground. But Hazel with the boat-hook propelled the boatgently over the pellucid water, that now seemed too shallow to float acanoe; and at last looked like the mere varnish of that picture, theprismatic sands below; yet still the little craft glided over it, till itgently grazed the soft sand and was stationary. So placidly ended thatterrible voyage.Mr. Hazel and Miss Rolleston were on shore in a moment, and it was allthey could do not to fall upon the land and kiss it.Never had the sea disgorged upon that fairy isle such ghastly specters.They looked, not like people about to die, but that had died, and beenburied, and just come out of their graves to land on that blissful shore.We should have started back with horror; but the birds of that virginisle merely stepped out of their way, and did not fly.They had landed in paradise.Even Welch yielded to that universal longing men have to embrace the landafter perils at sea, and was putting his leg slowly over the gunwale,when Hazel came back to his assistance. He got ashore, but was contentedto sit down with his eyes on the dimpled sea and the boat, waitingquietly till the tide should float his friend to his feet again.The sea-birds walked quietly about him, and minded him not.Miss Rolleston ascended a green slope very slowly, for her limbs werecramped, and was lost to view.Hazel now went up the beach, and took a more minute survey of theneighborhood.The west side of the bay was varied. Half of it presented the softcharacter that marked the bay in general; but a portion of it was rocky,though streaked with vegetation, and this part was intersected by narrowclefts, into which, in some rare tempests and high tides combined,tongues of the sea had entered, licking the sides of the gullies smooth;and these occasional visits were marked by the sand and broken shells andother _debris_ the tempestuous and encroaching sea had left behind.The true high-water mark was several feet lower than these _debris,_ andwas clearly marked. On the land above the cliffs he found a tangledjungle of tropical shrubs, into which he did not penetrate, but skirtedit, and, walking eastward, came out upon a delicious down or grassyslope, that faced the center of the bay. It was a gentleman's lawn of athousand acres, with an extremely gentle slope from the center of theisland down to the sea.A river flowing from some distant source ran eastward through this down,but at its verge, and almost encircled it. Hazel traversed the lawn untilthis river, taking a sudden turn toward the sea, intercepted him at aspot which he immediately fixed on as Helen Rolleston's future residence.Four short, thick, umbrageous trees stood close to the stream on thisside, and on the eastern side was a grove of gigantic palm-trees, atwhose very ankles the river ran. Indeed, it had undermined one of thesepalm-trees, and that giant at this moment lay all across the stream,leaving a gap through which Hazel's eye could pierce to a great depthamong those grand columns; for they stood wide apart, and there was not avestige of brushwood, jungle, or even grass below their enormous crowns.He christened the place St. Helen's on the spot.He now dipped his baler into the stream and found it pure and tolerablycool.He followed the bend of the stream; it evaded the slope and took him byits own milder descent to the sands. Over these it flowed smooth as glassinto the sea.Hazel ran to Welch to tell him all he had discovered, and to give him hisfirst water from the island.He found a roan-colored pigeon, with a purplish neck, perched on the sickman's foot. The bird shone like a rainbow, and cocked a saucy eye atHazel, and flew up into the air a few yards, but it soon appeared thatfear had little to do with this movement; for, after an airy circle ortwo, he fanned Hazel's cheek with his fast-flapping wings, and lighted onthe very edge of the baler, and was for sipping."Oh, look here, Welch!" cried Hazel, an ecstasy of delight."Ay, sir," said he. "Poor things, they hain't a found us out yet."The talking puzzled the bird, if it did not alarm him, and he flew up tothe nearest tree, and, perching there, inspected these new and noisybipeds at his leisure.Hazel now laid his hand on Welch's shoulder and reminded him gently theyhad a sad duty to perform, which could not be postponed."Right you are, sir," said Welch, "and very kind of you to let me have myway with him. Poor Sam!""I have found a place," said Hazel, in a low voice. "We can take the boatclose to it. But where is Miss Rolleston?""Oh, she is not far off; she was here just now, and brought me this herelittle cocoanut, and patted me on the back, she did, then off again on acruise. Bless her little heart!"Hazel and Welch then got into the boat, and pushed off without muchdifficulty, and punted across the bay to one of those clefts we haveindicated. It was now nearly high water, and they moored the boat closeunder the cleft Hazel had selected.Then they both got out and went up to the extremity of the cleft, andthere, with the ax and with pieces of wood, they scraped out aresting-place for Cooper. This was light work; for it was all stones,shells, fragments of coral and dried sea-weed lying loosely together. Butnow came a hard task in which Welch could not assist. Hazel unshipped athwart and laid the body on it. Then by a great effort staggered with theburden up to the grave and deposited it. He was exhausted by theexertion, and had to sit down panting for some time. As soon as he wasrecovered, he told Welch to stand at the head of the grave, and he stoodat the foot, bareheaded, and then, from memory, he repeated the serviceof our Church, hardly missing or displacing a word.This was no tame recital; the scene, the circumstances, the very absenceof the book, made it tender and solemn. And then Welch repeated thosebeautiful words after Hazel, and Hazel let him. And how did he repeatthem? In such a hearty, loving tone as became one who was about tofollow, and all this but a short leave-taking. So uttered, for the livingas well as the dead, those immortal words had a strange significance andbeauty.And presently a tender, silvery voice came down to mingle with the deepand solemn tones of the male mourners. It was Helen Rolleston. She hadwatched most of their movements unseen herself, and now, standing at theedge of the ravine, and looking down on them, uttered a soft butthrilling amen to every prayer. When it was over, and the men prepared tofill in the grave, she spoke to Welch in an undertone, and begged leaveto pay her tribute first; and, with this, she detached her apron and heldit out to them. Hazel easily climbed up to her, and found her apron wasfull of sweet-smelling bark and aromatic leaves, whose fragrance filledthe air."I want you to strew these over his poor remains," she said. "Oh, notcommon earth! He saved our lives. And his last words were, 'I love you,Tom.' Oh, dear, oh, dear, oh, dear!" And with that she gave him theapron, and turned her head away to hide her tears.Hazel blessed her for the thought, which, indeed, none but a lady wouldhave had; and Welch and he, with the tears in their eyes, strewed thespicy leaves first; and soon a ridge of shingle neatly bound withsea-weed marked the sailor's grave.Hazel's next care, and that a pressing one, was to provide shelter forthe delicate girl and the sick man, whom circumstances had placed underhis care. He told Miss Rolleston Welch and he were going to cross the bayagain, and would she be good enough to meet them at the bend of the riverwhere she would find four trees? She nodded her head and took that roadaccordingly. Hazel rowed eastward across the bay, and, it being now highwater, he got the boat into the river itself near the edge of the shore,and, as this river had worn a channel, he contrived with the boat-hook topropel the boat up the stream, to an angle in the bank within forty yardsof the four trees. He could get no farther, the stream being now not onlyshallow, but blocked here and there with great and rough fragments ofstone. Hazel pushed the boat into the angle out of the current, andmoored her fast. He and Welch then got ashore, and Miss Rolleston wasstanding at the four trees. He went to her and said enthusiastically,"This is to be your house. Is it not a beautiful site?""Yes, it is a beautiful site, but--forgive me--I really don't see thehouse," was her reply."But you see the framework."Helen looked all about, and then said, ruefully, "I suppose I am blind,sir, or else you are dreaming, for I see nothing at all.""Why, here's a roof ready made, and the frame of a wall. We have only towattle a screen between these four uprights.""Only to wattle a screen! But I don't know what wattling a screen is. Whodoes?""Why, you get some of the canes that grow a little farther up the river,and a certain long wiry grass I have marked down, and then you fix andweave till you make a screen from tree to tree; this could be patchedwith wet clay; I know where there is plenty of that. Meantime see what isdone to our hands. The crown of this great palm-tree lies at the southernaperture of your house, and blocks it entirely up. That will keep off theonly cold wind, the south wind, from you to-night. Then look at theselong, spiky leaves interlaced over your head. (These trees are screwpines.) There is a roof ready made. You must have another roof underneaththat, but it will do for a day or two.""But you will wattle the screen directly," said Helen. "Begin at once,please. I am anxious to see a screen wattled.""Well," said Welch, who had joined them, "landsmen are queer folk, thebest of 'em. Why, miss, it would take him a week to screen you withrushes and reeds, and them sort of weeds; and I'd do it in half an hour,if I was the Tom Welch I used to be. Why, there's spare canvas enough inthe boat to go between these four trees breast high, and then there's theforesel besides; the mainsel is all you and me shall want, sir.""Oh, excuse me," said Miss Rolleston, "I will not be sheltered at theexpense of my friends.""Welch, you are a trump," said Hazel, and ran off for the spare canvas.He brought it and the carpenter's basket of tools. They went to work, andMiss Rolleston insisted on taking part in it. Finding her so disposed,Hazel said that they had better divide their labors, since the time wasshort. Accordingly he took the ax and chopped off a great many scales ofthe palm-tree, and lighted a great fire between the trees, while theother two worked on the canvas."This is to dry the soil as well as cook our provisions," said he; "andnow I must go and find food. Is there anything you fancy?" He turned hishead from the fire he was lighting and addressed this question both toWelch and Miss Rolleston.Miss Rolleston stared at this question, then smiled, and, in the truespirit of a lady, said, "I think I should like a good large cocoanut, ifyou can find one." She felt sure there was no other eatable thing in thewhole island."I wants a cabbage," said Welch, in a loud voice."Oh, Mr. Welch, we are not at home," said Miss Rolleston, blushing at thepreposterous demand."No, miss, in Capericorn. Whereby we shan't have to pay nothing for thishere cabbage. I'll tell ye, miss: when a sailor comes ashore he alwaysgoes in for green vegetables, for why, he has eaten so much junk andbiscuit, nature sings out for greens. Me and my shipmates was paid off atPortsmouth last year, and six of us agreed to dine together and eachorder his dish. Blest if six boiled legs of mutton did not come upsmoking hot: three was with cabbage, and three with turmots. Mine waswith turmots. But them I don't ask, so nigh the Line. Don't ye go tothink, because I'm sick, and the lady and you is so kind to me, and tohim that is a waiting outside them there shoals for me, as I'monreasonable; turmots I wish you both, and plenty of 'em, when somewhaler gets driven out of her course and picks you up, and carries youinto northern latitudes where turmots grow; but cabbage is my right,cabbage is my due, being paid off in a manner; for the ship is founderedand I'm ashore. Cabbage I ask for, as a seaman that has done his duty,and a man that won't live to eat many more of 'em; and" (losing histemper), "if you are the man I take you for, you'll run and fetch me acabbage fresh from the tree" (recovering his temper). "I know I didn'tought to ax a parson to shin up a tree for me; but, Lord bless you, thereain't no sarcy little boys a-looking on, and here's a poor fellow mostlydying for it."Miss Rolleston looked at Mr. Hazel with alarm in every feature; andwhispered, "Cabbage from the tree. Is he wandering?"Hazel smiled. "No," said he. "He has picked up a fable of these seas,that there is a tree which grows cabbages."Welch heard him and said, with due warmth, "Of course there is a tree onall these islands that grows cabbages; that was known a hundred yearsbefore you was born, and shipmates of mine have eaten them.""Excuse me, what those old admirals and buccaneers, that set the legendafloat, were so absurd as to call a cabbage, and your shipmates may haveeaten for one, is nothing on earth but the last year's growth of thepalm-tree.""Palm-tree be ----!" said Welch; and thereupon ensued a hot argument,which Helen's good sense cut short."Mr. Hazel," said she, "can you by any possibility get our poor friendthe _thing_ he wants?""Oh, _that_ is quite within the bounds of possibility," said Hazel dryly."Well, then, suppose you begin by getting him the _thing._ Then I willboil the thing; and he will eat the thing; and after all that it will betime to argue about the _name_ we shall give to the _thing."_The good sense of this struck Mr. Hazel forcibly. He started off at once,armed with the ax, and a net bag Welch had made since he became unfit forheavy labor. He called back to them as he went, to put the pots on.Welch and Miss Rolleston complied; and then the sailor showed the ladyhow to sew sailor--wise, driving the large needle with the palm of thehand, guarded by a piece of leather. They had nailed two breadths ofcanvas to the trees on the north and west sides and run the breadthsrapidly together; and the water was boiling and bubbling in the balers,when Miss Rolleston uttered a scream, for Hazel came running over theprostrate palm-tree as if it was a proper bridge, and lighted in themidst of them."Lot one," said he cheerfully, and produced from his net some limes, twococoanuts, and a land-turtle; from this last esculent Miss Rollestonwithdrew with undisguised horror, and it was in vain he assured her itwas a great delicacy."No matter. It is a reptile. Oh, please send it away.""The Queen of the Island reprieves you," said he, and put down theterrapin, which went off very leisurely for a reprieved reptile.Then Hazel produced a fine bream, which he had found struggling in arock-pool, the tide having turned, and three sea crayfish, bigger thanany lobster. He chopped their heads off outside, and threw their tailsinto the pots; he stuck a piece of pointed wood through the bream, andgave it to Welch to toast; but Welch waved it aside."I see no cabbage," said he, grimly."Oh, I forgot. But that is soon found," said Hazel. "Here, give me thefish, and you take the saw, and examine the head of the palm-tree, whichlies at Miss Rolleston's door. Saw away the succulent part of last year'sgrowth, and bring it here."Welch got up slowly."I'll go with you, Mr. Welch," said Miss Rolleston.She will not be alone with me for a moment, if she can help it, thoughtHazel, and sat moody by the fire. But he shook off his sadness, andforced on a cheerful look the moment they came back. They brought withthem a vegetable very like the heart of a cabbage, only longer andwhiter."There," said Welch, "what d'ye call that?""The last year's growth of the palm," said Hazel calmly.This vegetable was cut in two and put into the pots."There, take the toasting-fork again," said Hazel to Welch, and drew outfrom his net three huge scallop shells. "Soup-plates," said he, andwashed them in the running stream, then put them before the fire to dry.While the fish and vegetable were cooking, he went and cut off some ofthe leafy, piunuated branches of the palm-tree, and fastened themhorizontally above the strips of canvas. Each palm branch traversed awhole side of the bower. This closed the northern and western sides.On the southern side, the prostrate palm-tree, on striking the ground,had so crushed its boughs and leaves together as to make a thick wall offoliage.Then he took to making forks; and primitive ones they were. He selected abough the size of a thick walking-stick; sawed it off the tree; sawed apiece six inches long off it, peeled that, split it in four, and, withhis knife, gave each piece three points, by merely tapering off andserrating one end; and so he made a fork a minute. Then he brought allthe rugs and things from the boat, and the ground being now thoroughlydried by the fire, placed them for seats; gave each person a large leaffor a plate, besides a scallop-shell; and served out supper. It was eatenwith rare appetite; the palm-tree vegetable in particular was delicious,tasting between a cabbage and a cocoanut.When they had supped, Hazel removed the plates and went to the boat. Hereturned, dragging the foremast and foresail, which were small, andcalled Welch out. They agreed to rig the mainsail tarpaulin-wise andsleep in the boat. Accordingly they made themselves very busy screeningthe east side of Miss Rolleston's new abode with the foresail, andfastened a loop and drove a nail into the tree, and looped the sail toit, then suddenly bade her good-night in cheerful tones, and were gone ina moment, leaving her to her repose, as they imagined. Hazel, inparticular, having used all his ingenuity to secure her personal comfort,was now too bent on showing her the most delicate respect and forbearanceto think of anything else. But, justly counting on the delicacy, he hadforgotten the timidity of her sex, and her first night in the island wasa terribly trying one.Thrice she opened her mouth to call Welch and Hazel back, but could not.Yet, when their footsteps were out of hearing, she would have given theworld to have them between her and the perils with which she felt herselfsurrounded.Tigers; snakes; scorpions; savages! what would become of her during thelong night?She sat and cowered before the hot embers. She listened to what seemedthe angry roar of the sea. What with the stillness of the night and hersharpened senses she heard it all round the island: she seemed environedwith peril, and yet surrounded by desolation. No one at hand to save herin time from a wild beast. No one anywhere near except a sick sailor andone she would almost rather die than call singly to her aid, for he hadonce told her he loved her."Oh, papa! Oh, Arthur!" she cried, "are you praying for your poor Helen?"Then she wept and prayed; and half nerved herself to bear the worst.Finally, her vague fears completely overmastered her. Then she hadrecourse to a stratagem that belongs to her sex--she hid herself from thedanger, and the danger from her; she covered herself face and all, and solay trembling, and longing for the day.At the first streak of dawn she fled from her place of torture, and afterplunging her face and hands in the river, which did her a world of good,she went off and entered the jungle, and searched it closely, so far asshe could penetrate it. Soon she heard "Miss Rolleston" called in anxioustones. But she tossed her little head and revenged herself for her nightof agony by not replying.However, Nature took her in hand; imperious hunger drew her back to herlate place of torture; and there she found a fire, and Hazel cookingcray-fish. She ate the crayfish heartily, and drank cocoanut milk out ofhalf a cocoanut, which the ingenious Hazel had already sawn, polished andmounted for her.After that, Hazel's whole day was occupied in stripping a tree that stoodon the high western promontory of the bay, and building up the materialsof a bonfire a few yards from it, that, if any whaler should stray thatway, they might not be at a loss for means to attract her attention.Welch was very ill all day, and Miss Rolleston nursed him. He got abouttoward evening, and Miss Rolleston asked him, rather timidly, if he couldput her up a bell-rope."Why, yes, miss," said Welch, "that is easy enough; but I don't see nobell." Oh, she did not want a bell--she only wanted a bell-rope.Hazel came up during this conversation, and she then gave her reason."Because, then, if Mr. Welch is ill in the night, and wants me, I couldcome to him. Or--" finding herself getting near the real reason shestopped short."Or what?" inquired Hazel, eagerly.She replied to Welch. "When tigers and things come to me, I can let youknow, Mr. Welch, if you have any curiosity about the result of theirvisit.""Tigers!" said Hazel, in answer to this side slap; "there are no tigershere; no large animals of prey exist in the Pacific.""What makes you think that?""It is notorious. Naturalists are agreed.""But I am not. I heard noises all night. And little I expected thatanything of me would be left this morning, except, perhaps, my back hair.Mr. Welch, you are clever at rigging things--that is what you callit--and so please rig me a bell-rope, then I shall not be eaten alivewithout creating some _little_ disturbance.""I'll do it, miss," said Welch, "this very night."Hazel said nothing, but pondered. Accordingly, that very evening a pieceof stout twine, with a stone at the end of it, hung down from the roof ofHelen's house; and this twine clove the air until it reached a ring uponthe mainmast of the cutter; thence it descended, and was to be made fastto something or somebody. The young lady inquired no further. The verysight of this bell-rope was a great comfort to her; it reunited her tocivilized life. That night she lay down, and quaked considerably less.Yet she woke several times; and an hour before daylight she hearddistinctly a noise that made her flesh creep. It was like the snoring ofsome great animals. This horrible sound was faint and distant; but sheheard it between the roll of the waves, and that showed it was not thesea roaring; she hid herself in her rugs, and cowered till daybreak. Ascore of times she was minded to pull her bell-rope; but always a womanlyfeeling, strong as her love of life, withheld her. "Time to pull thatbell-rope when the danger was present or imminent," she thought toherself. "The thing will come smelling about before it attacks me, andthen I will pull the bell;" and so she passed an hour of agony.Next morning, at daybreak, Hazel met her just issuing from her hut, andpointing to his net told her he was going to forage; and would she begood enough to make the fire and have boiling water ready? he was sorryto trouble her; but poor Welch was worse this morning. Miss Rolleston cutshort his excuses. "Pray do not take me for a child; of course I willlight the fire, and boil the water. Only I have no lucifer matches.""Here are two," said he. "I carry the box wrapped in oil-skin. For ifanything happen to _them,_ Heaven help us."He crossed the prostrate palm-tree, and dived into the wood. It was alarge beautiful wood, and, except at the western edge, the trees were allof the palm-tree genus, but contained several species, including thecocoanut tree. The turf ran under these trees for about forty yards andthen died gradually away under the same thick shade which destroyed allother vegetation in this wood, and made it so easy to see and travel.He gathered a few cocoanuts that had burst out of their ripe pods andfallen to the ground; and ran on till he reached a belt of trees andshrubs, that bounded the palm forest. Here his progress was no longereasy. But he found trees covered with a small fruit resembling quinces inevery particular of look, taste and smell, and that made him persevere,since it was most important to learn the useful products of the island.Presently he burst through some brushwood into a swampy bottom surroundedby low trees, and instantly a dozen large birds of the osprey kind roseflapping into the air like windmills rising. He was quite startled by thewhirring and flapping, and not a little amazed at the appearance of theplace. Here was a very charnel-house; so thick lay the shells, skeletonsand loose bones of fish. Here too he found three terrapin killed but noteaten, and also some fish, more or less pecked. "Aha! my worthyexecutioners, much obliged," said he. "You have saved me that job." Andinto the bag went the terrapin, and two plump fish, but slightlymutilated. Before he had gone many yards, back came the sailing wings,and the birds settled again before his eyes. The rest of the low wood wasbut thin, and he soon emerged upon the open country; but it was mostunpromising; and fitter for geese than men. A vast sedgy swamp with waterin the middle, thin fringes of great fern-trees, and here and there adisconsolate tree like a weeping-willow, and at the end of this lake andswamp, which all together formed a triangle, was a barren hill without ablade of vegetation on it, and a sort of jagged summit Hazel did not atall like the look of. Volcanic!Somewhat dismayed at finding so large a slice of the island worthless, hereturned through the wood, guiding himself due west by hispocket-compass, and so got down to the shore, where he found scallops andcray-fish in incredible abundance. Literally, he had only to go into thewater and gather them. But "enough" is as good as "a feast." He ran tothe pots with his miscellaneous bag, and was not received according tohis deserts. Miss Rolleston told him, a little severely, the water hadbeen boiling a long time. Then he produced his provender, by way ofexcuse."Tortoises again!" said she, and shuddered visibly.But the quinces and cocoanuts were graciously received. Welch, however,cried out for cabbage."What am I to do?" said Hazel. "For every such cabbage a king must die.""Goodness me!""A monarch of the grove.""Oh, a King Log. Why, then down with them all, of course; sooner thandear Mr. Welch shall go without his cabbage."He cast a look of admiration on her, which she avoided, and very soon hisax was heard ringing in the wood hard by. Then came a loud crash. Thenanother. Hazel came running with the cabbage and a cocoa-pod. "There,"said he, "and there are a hundred more about. While you cook that forWelch I will store them." Accordingly he returned to the wood with hisnet, and soon came back with five pods in it, each as big as a largepumpkin.He chucked these one at a time across the river, and then went for more.It took him all the afternoon to get all the pods across the river. Hewas obliged to sit down and rest.But a suggestion of Helen's soon set him to work again."You were kind enough to say you would store these for me. Could you notstore them so as to wall out those terrible beasts with them?""What terrible beasts?""That roar so all night, and don't eat us, only because they have notfound out we are here yet. But they will.""I deny their existence," said Hazel. "But I'll wall them out all thesame," said he."Pray do," said Helen. "Wall them out first, and disprove them afterward;I shall be better able to believe they don't exist when they are wellwalled out--much."Hazel went to work, and with her assistance laid cocoa-pods two wide andthree deep, outside the northern and western sides of her leafy bower,and he promised to complete the walls by the same means in two days more.They all then supped together, and, to oblige him, she ate a little ofthe terrapin, and, when they parted for the night, she thanked him, andsaid, with a deep blush, "You have been a good friend to me--of late."He colored high, and his eyes sparkled with delight; and she noticed, andalmost wished she had kept her gratitude to herself.That night, what with her bell-rope and her little bit of a wall, she wassomewhat less timorous, and went to sleep early.But even in sleep she was watchful, and she was awakened by a slightsound in the neighborhood of the boat.She lay watching, but did not stir.Presently she heard a footstep.With a stifled cry she bounded up, and her first impulse was to rush outof the tent. But she conquered this, and, gliding to the south side ofher bower, she peered through the palm-leaves, and the first thing shesaw was the figure of a man standing between her and the boat.She drew her breath hard. The outline of the man was somewhat indistinct.But it was not a savage. The man was clothed; and his stature betrayedhim.He stood still for some time. "He is listening to see if I am awake,"said Helen to herself.The figure moved toward her bower.Then all in a moment she became another woman. She did not rely on herbell-rope; she felt it was fast to nothing that could help her. Shelooked round for no weapon; she trusted to herself. She drew herselfhastily up, and folded her arms; her bosom panted, but her cheek neverpaled. Her modesty was alarmed; her blood was up, and life or death werenothing to her.The footsteps came nearer; they stopped at her door; they went north;they came back south. They kept her in this high-wrought attitude forhalf an hour. Then they retired softly; and, when they were gone, shegave way and fell on her knees and began to cry hysterically. Then shegot calmer, and then she wondered and puzzled herself; but she slept nomore that night.In the morning she found that the fire was lighted on a sort of shelfclose to the boat. Mr. Hazel had cut the shelf and lighted the fire therefor Welch's sake, who had complained of cold in the night.While Hazel was gone for the crayfish, Welch asked Helen to go for herprayer-book. She brought it directly, and turned the leaves to find theprayers for the sick. But she was soon undeceived as to his intention."Sam had it wrote down how the _Proserpine_ was foundered, and I shouldlike to lie alongside my messmate on that there paper, as well as int'other place" (meaning the grave). "Begin as Sam did, that this is mylast word.""Oh, I hope not. Oh, Mr. Welch, pray do not leave me!""Well, well then, never mind that; but just put down as I heard Sam; andhis dying words, that the parson took down, were the truth.""I have written that.""And that the two holes was on her port-side, and seven foot from herstain-post; and _I_ say them very augers that is in our cutter made themholes. Set down that.""It is down.""Then I'll put my mark under it; and you are my witness."Helen, anxious to please him in everything, showed him where to put hismark.He did so; and she signed her name as his witness."And now, Mr. Welch," said she, "do not you fret about the loss of theship; you should rather think how good Providence has been to us insaving us three out of so many that sailed in that poor ship. That Wyliewas a wicked man; but he is drowned, or starved, no doubt, and there isan end of him. You are alive, and we are all three to see Old Englandagain. But to live, you must eat; and so now do pray make a goodbreakfast to-day. Tell me what you can fancy. A cabbage?""What, you own it is a cabbage?""Of course I do," said Helen, coaxing. "You must excuse Mr. Hazel; theselearned men are so crotchety in some things, and go by books; but you andI go by our senses, and to us a cabbage is a cabbage, grow where it will.Will you have one?""No, miss, not this morning. What I wants this morning very bad, indeed,it is--I wants a drink made of the sweet-smelling leaves, like as youstrewed over my messmate--the Lord in heaven bless you for it.""Oh, Mr. Welch, that is a curious fancy; but you shall not ask me twicefor anything; the jungle is full of them, and I'll fetch you some in fiveminutes. So you must boil the water."She scudded away to the jungle, and soon returned with some aromaticleaves. While they were infusing, Hazel came up, and, on being informedof Welch's fancy, made no opposition; but, on the contrary, said thatsuch men had sometimes very happy inspirations. He tasted it, however,and said the smell was the best part of it, in his opinion. He then putit aside to cool for the sick man's use.They ate their usual breakfast, and then Welch sipped his spiced tea, ashe called it. Morning and afternoon he drank copious draughts of it, andseemed to get suddenly better, and told them not to hang about him anylonger; but go to their work: he was all right now.To humor him they went off in different directions; Hazel with his ax tolevel cocoanut trees, and Helen to search for fruits in the jungle.She came back in about an hour, very proud of some pods she had foundwith nutmegs inside them. She ran to Welch. He was not in the boat. Shesaw his waistcoat, however, folded and lying on the thwart; so she knewhe could not be far off and concluded he was in her bower. But he was notthere; and she called to Mr. Hazel. He came to the side of the riverladen with cocoanuts."Is he with you?" said Helen."Who? Welch? No.""Well, then, he is not here. Oh, dear! something is the matter."Hazel came across directly. And they both began to run anxiously to everypart whence they could command a view to any distance.They could not see him anywhere, and met with blank faces at the bower.Then Helen made a discovery.This very day, while hanging about the place, Hazel had torn up from theedge of the river an old trunk, whose roots had been loosened by thewater washing away the earth that held them, and this stump he had set upin her bower for a table, after sawing the roots down into legs. Well, onthe smooth part of this table lay a little pile of money, a ring with alarge pearl in it, and two gold ear-rings Helen had often noticed inWelch's ears.She pointed at these and turned pale. Then, suddenly waving her hand toHazel to follow her, she darted out of the bower, and, in a moment, shewas at the boat.There she found, beside his waistcoat, his knife, and a little pile ofmoney, placed carefully on the thwart; and, underneath it, his jacketrolled up, and his shoes and sailor's cap, all put neatly and in order.Hazel found her looking at them. He began to have vague misgivings. "Whatdoes this mean?" he said faintly."'What does it mean!'" cried Helen, in agony. "Don't you see? A legacy!The poor thing has divided his little all. Oh, my heart! What has becomeof him?" Then, with one of those inspirations her sex have, she cried,"Ah! Cooper's grave!"Hazel, though not so quick as she was, caught her meaning at a word, andflew down the slope to the seashore. The tide was out. A long irregulartrack of footsteps indented the sand. He stopped a moment and looked atthem. They pointed toward that cleft where the grave was. He followedthem all across the sand. They entered the cleft, and did not return.Full of heavy foreboding he rushed into the cleft.Yes; his arms hanging on each side of the grave, and his cheek laidgently on it, there lay Tom Welch, with a loving smile on his dead face.Only a man; yet faithful as a dog.Hazel went back slowly, and crying. Of all men living, he could bestappreciate fidelity and mourn its fate.But, as he drew near Helen, he dried his eyes; for it was his duty tocomfort her.She had at first endeavored to follow him; but after a few steps herknees smote together, and she was fain to sit down on the grassy slopethat overlooked the sea.The sun was setting huge and red over that vast and peaceful sea.She put her hands to her head, and, sick at heart, looked heavily at thatglorious and peaceful sight. Hazel came up to her. She looked at hisface, and that look was enough for her. She rocked herself gently to andfro."Yes," said he, in a broken voice. "He was there--quite dead."He sat gently down by her side, and looked at that setting sun andillimitable ocean, and his heart felt deadly sad. "He is gone--and we arealone--on this island."The man said this in one sense only. But the woman heard it in more thanone.ALONE!She glanced timidly round at him, and, without rising, edged a littleaway from him, and wept in silence.CHAPTER XXVI.AFTER a long silence, Hazel asked her in a low voice if she could bethere in half an hour. She said yes, in the same tone, but withoutturning her head. On reaching the graves, she found that Hazel had sparedher a sad sight; nothing remained but to perform the service. When it wasover she went slowly away in deep distress on more accounts than one. Indue course Hazel came to her bower, but she was not there. Then helighted the fire, and prepared everything for supper; and he was so busy,and her foot so light, he did not hear her come. But by and by, liftinghis head, he saw her looking wistfully at him, as if she would read hissoul in his minutest actions. He started and brightened all over withpleasure at the sudden sight of her, and said eagerly, "Your supper isquite ready.""Thank you, sir," said she, sadly and coldly (she had noted thatexpression of joy), "I have no appetite; do not wait for me." And soonafter strolled away again.Hazel was dumfounded. There was no mistaking her manner; it was chillyand reserved all of a sudden. It wounded him; but he behaved like a man."What! I keep her out of her own house, do I?" said he to himself. Hestarted up, took a fish out of the pot, wrapped it in a leaf, and stalkedoff to his boat. Then he ate a little of the fish, threw the rest away,and went down upon the sands, and paced them in a sad and bitter mood.But the night calmed him, and some hours of tranquil thought brought himfortitude, patience and a clear understanding. He went to his boat,elevated by generous and delicate resolutions. Now worthy resolves aretranquilizing, and he slept profoundly.Not so she, whose sudden but very natural change of demeanor had hurthim. When she returned and found he was gone for the night, she began tobe alarmed at having offended him.For this and other reasons she passed the night in sore perplexity, anddid not sleep till morning; and so she overslept her usual time. However,when she was up, she determined to find her own breakfast; she felt itwould not do to be too dependent, and on a person of uncertain humor;such for the moment she chose to pretend to herself was Hazel.Accordingly she went down to the sea to look for crayfish. She foundabundance. There they lay in the water; you had but to stoop and pickthem up.But alas! they were black, lively, viperish; she went with no greatrelish for the task to take one up; it wriggled maliciously; she droppedit, and at that very moment, by a curious coincidence, remembered she wassick and tired of crayfish; she would breakfast on fruits. She crossedthe sand, took off her shoes, and paddled through the river, and; havingput on her shoes again, was about to walk up through some rank grass tothe big wood, when she heard a voice behind her, and it was Mr. Hazel.She bit her lip (it was broad daylight now), and prepared quietly todiscourage this excessive assiduity. He came up to her panting a little,and, taking off his hat, said, with marked respect, "I beg your pardon,Miss Rolleston, but I know you hate reptiles; now there are a few snakesin that long grass; not poisonous ones.""Snakes!" cried Helen; "let me get home; there--I'll go without mybreakfast.""Oh, I hope not," said Hazel, ruefully; "why, I have been ratherfortunate this morning, and it is all ready.""That is a different thing," said Helen, graciously; "you must not haveyour trouble for nothing, I suppose."Directly after breakfast, Hazel took his ax and some rope from the boat,and went off in a great hurry to the jungle. In half an hour or so hereturned, dragging a large conical shrub, armed with spikes for leaves,incredibly dense and prickly."There," said he, "there's a vegetable porcupine for you. This is yourbest defense against that roaring bugbear.""That little tree!" said Helen; "the tiger would soon jump over that.""Ay, but not over this and sixty more; a wall of stilettos. Don't touchit, please."He worked very hard all day, and brought twelve of these prickly trees tothe bower by sunset. He was very dissatisfied with his day's work; seemedquite mortified."This comes of beginning at the wrong end," he said; "I went to work likea fool. I should have begun by making a cart.""But you can't do that," said Helen, soothingly; "no gentleman can make acart.""Oh, surely anybody can make a cart, by a little thinking," said he."I wish," said Helen, listlessly, "you would think of something for me todo; I begin to be ashamed of not helping.""Hum! you can plait?""Yes, as far as seven strands.""Then you need never be unemployed. We want ropes, and shall want largemats for the rainy weather."He went to the place where he had warned her of the snakes, and cut agreat bundle of long silky grass, surprisingly tough, yet neither harshnor juicy; he brought it her and said he should be very glad of a hundredyards of light cord, three ply and five ply.She was charmed with the grass, and the very next morning she came tobreakfast with it nicely prepared, and a good deal of cord made andhanging round her neck. She found some preparations for carpenter's worklying about."Is that great log for the cart?" said she."Yes! it is a section of a sago-tree.""What, our sago?""The basis. See, in the center it is all soft pith." He got from the boatone of the augers that had scuttled the _Proserpine,_ and soon turned thepith out. "They pound that pith in water, and run it through linen; thenset the water in the sun to evaporate. The sediment is the sago ofcommerce, and sad insipid stuff it is.""Oh, please don't call anything names one has eaten in England," saidHelen, sorrowfully.After a hasty meal, she and Mr. Hazel worked for a wager. Her taperfingers went like the wind, and though she watched him, and askedquestions, she never stopped plaiting. Mr. Hazel was no carpenter, he wasmerely Brains spurred by Necessity. He went to work and sawed off fourshort disks of the sago-log."Now what are those, pray?" asked Helen."The wheels--primeval wheels. And here are the linchpins, made of hardwood; I wattled them at odd times."He then produced two young lime-trees he had rooted up that morning andsawed them into poles in a minute. Then he bored two holes in each pole,about four inches from either extremity, and fitted his linchpins; thenhe drew out his linchpins, passed each pole first through one disk, andthen through another, and fastened his linchpins. Then he ran to theboat, and came back with the stern and midship thwarts. He drilled withhis center-bit three rows of holes in these, two inches from the edge.And now Helen's work came in; her grass rope bound the thwarts tight tothe horizontal poles, leaving the disks room to play easily between thethwarts and the linchpins; but there was an open space thirteen inchesbroad between the thwarts; this space Hazel herring-boned over with someof Helen's rope drawn as tight as possible. The cart was now made. Timeoccupied in its production, three hours and forty minutes.The coachmaker was very hot, and Helen asked him timidly whether he hadnot better rest and eat. "No time for that," said he. "The day is nothalf long enough for what I have to do." He drank copiously from thestream; put the carpenter's basket into the cart, got the tow-rope fromthe boat and fastened it to the cart in this shape: A, putting himself inthe center. So now the coachmaker was the horse, and off they went,rattling and creaking, to the jungle.Helen turned her stool and watched this pageant enter the jungle. Sheplaited on, but not so merrily. Hazel's companionship and bustling waysomehow kept her spirits up.But, whenever she was left alone, she gazed on the blank ocean, and herheart died within her. At last she strolled pensively toward the jungle,plaiting busily as she went, and hanging the rope round her neck as fastas she made it.At the edge of the jungle she found Hazel in a difficulty. He had cutdown a wagon load of prickly trees, and wanted to get all this mass of_noli me tangere_ on to that wretched little cart, but had not ropeenough to keep it together. She gave him plenty of new line, and partlyby fastening a small rope to the big rope and so making the big rope areceptacle, partly by artful tying, they dragged home an incredible load.To be sure some of it draggled half along the ground, and came after likea peacock's tail.He made six trips, and then the sun was low; so he began to build. Heraised a rampart of these prickly trees, a rampart three feet wide andeight feet high; but it only went round two sides and a half of thebower. So then he said he had failed again; and lay down worn out byfatigue.Helen Rolleston, though dejected herself, could not help pitying him forhis exhaustion in her service, and for his bleeding hands. She undertookthe cooking, and urged him kindly to eat of every dish; and, when he roseto go, she thanked him with as much feeling as modesty for the greatpains he had taken to lessen those fears of hers which she saw he did notshare.These kind words more than repaid him. He went to his little den in aglow of spirits; and the next morning went off in a violent hurry, and,for once, seemed glad to get away from her."Poor Mr. Hazel," said she softly, and watched him out of sight. Then shegot her plait, and went to the high point where he had barked a tree, andlooked far and wide for a sail. The air was wonderfully clear; the wholeocean seemed in sight; but all was blank.A great awe fell upon her, and sickness of heart; and then first shebegan to fear she was out of the known world, and might die on thatisland; or never be found by the present generation. And this sickeningfear lurked in her from that hour, and led to consequences that will berelated shortly.She did not return for a long while, and, when she did, she found Hazelhad completed her fortifications. He invited her to explore the westernpart of the island, but she declined."Thank you," said she; "not to-day; there is something to be done athome. I have been comparing my abode with yours, and the contrast makesme uncomfortable, if it doesn't you. Oblige me by building yourself ahouse.""What, in an afternoon?""Why not? you made a cart in a forenoon. How can I tell your limits? youare quite out of my poor little depth. Well, at all events, you must roofthe boat, or something. Come, be good for once, and think a little ofyourself. There, I'll sit by and--what shall I do while you are workingto oblige me?""Make a fishing-net of cocoanut fiber, four feet deep. Here's plenty ofmaterial all prepared.""Why, Mr. Hazel, you must work in your sleep.""No; but of course I am not idle when I am alone; and luckily I have madea spade out of hard wood at odd hours, or all the afternoon would go inmaking that.""A spade! You are going to dig a hole in the ground and call it a house.That will not do for me.""You will see," said Hazel.The boat lay in a little triangular creek; the surrounding earth wasalluvial clay; a sort of black cheesy mould, stiff, but kindly to workwith the spade. Hazel cut and chiseled it out at a grand rate, and,throwing it to the sides, raised by degrees two mud banks, one on eachside the boat; and at last he dug so deep that he was enabled to draw theboat another yard inland.As Helen sat by netting and forcing a smile now and then, though sad atheart, he was on his mettle, and the mud walls he raised in four hourswere really wonderful. He squared their inner sides with the spade. Whenhe had done, the boat lay in a hollow, the walls of which, half natural,half artificial, were five feet above her gunwale, and, of course, eightfeet above her bottom, in which Hazel used to lie at night. He then madeanother little wall at the boat's stern, and laid palm-branches over all,and a few huge banana-leaves from the jungle; got a dozen large stonesout of the river, tied four yards'-lengths of Helen's grass-rope fromstone to stone, and so, passing the ropes over the roof, confined it,otherwise a sudden gust of wind might lift it."There," said he; "am I not as well off as you?--I, a great tough man.Abominable waste of time, I call it.""Hum!" said Helen, doubtfully. "All this is very clever; but I doubtwhether it will keep out much rain.""More than yours will," said Hazel, "and that is a very serious thing. Iam afraid you little know how serious. But, to-morrow, if you please, Iwill examine our resources, and lay our whole situation before you, andask your advice. As to your bugbear, let him roar his heart out, hisreign is over. Will you not come and see your wooden walls?"He then took Helen and showed her the tremendous nature of herfortification, and assured her that no beast of prey could face it, noreven smell at it, with impunity. And as to the door, here the defense wasdouble and treble; but attached to four grass cords; two passed into theabode round each of the screw pine-trees at the east side, and were keptin their places by pegs driven into the trees."When you are up," said Hazel, "you pull these four cords steadily, andyour four guards will draw back right and left, with all their bayonets,and you can come out."Helen was very much pleased with this arrangement, and did not disguiseher gratitude. She slept in peace and comfort that night. Hazel, too,profited by the mud walls and leafy roof she had compelled him to rear;for this night was colder, as it happened, than any preceding night sincethey came ashore. In the morning, Hazel saw a green turtle on the shore,which was unusual at that time of year. He ran and turned her, with somedifficulty; then brought down his cart, cut off her head with a blow,and, in due course, dragged her up the slope. She weighed two hundredpounds. He showed Miss Rolleston the enormous shell, gave her a lectureon turtles, and especially on the four species known to South Seanavigators--the trunk turtle, the loggerhead, the green turtle, and thehawks-bill, from which last, and not from any tortoise, he assured hercame the tortoise-shell of commerce."And now," said he, "will you not give up or suspend your reptile theory,and eat a little green turtle, the king of them all?""I think I must, after all that," said she; and rather relished it.That morning he kept his word, and laid their case before her.He said: "We are here on an island that has probably been seen anddisregarded by a few whalers, but is not known to navigators nor down onany chart. There is a wide range of vegetation, proving a delightfulclimate on the whole, and one particularly suited to you, whose lungs aredelicate. But then, comparing the beds of the rivers with the banks, atremendous fall of rain is indicated. The rainy months (in theselatitudes) are at hand, and if these rains catch us in our presentcondition, it will be a calamity. You have walls, but no roof to keep itout. I tremble when I think of it. This is my main anxiety. My next isabout our sustenance during the rains; we have no stores under cover; nofuel; no provisions but a few cocoanuts. We use two lucifer matches aday; and what is to become of us at that rate? In theory, fire can be gotby rubbing two pieces of wood together; Selkirk is said to have soobtained it from pimento wood on Juan Fernandez; but, in fact, I believethe art is confined to savages. I never met a civilized man who could doit, and I have questioned scores of voyagers. As for my weapons, theyconsist of a boat-hook and an ax; no gun, no harpoon, no bow, no lance.My tools are a blunt saw, a blunter ax, a wooden spade, two great augers,that I believe had a hand in bringing us here, but have not been any useto us since, a center-bit, two planes, a hammer, a pair of pincers, twobrad-awls, three gimlets, two scrapers, a plumb-lead and line, a largepair of scissors, and you have a small pair, two gauges, a screw-driver,five clasp-knives, a few screws and nails of various sizes, two smallbarrels, two bags, two tin bowls, two wooden bowls, and the shell of thisturtle, and that is a very good soup-tureen, only we have no meat to makesoup with.""Well, sir," said Miss Rolleston, resignedly, "we can but kneel down anddie.""That would be cutting the gordian knot, indeed," said Hazel. "What, dieto shirk a few difficulties? No. I propose an amendment to that. Afterthe words 'kneel down,' insert the words, 'and get up again, trusting inthat merciful Providence which has saved us so far, but expects us toexert ourselves too.'""It is good and pious advice," said Helen, "and let us follow it thismoment.""Now," said Hazel, "I have three propositions to lay before you. 1st.That I hereby give up walking and take to running; time is so precious.2d. That we both work by night as well as day. 3d. That we each tell theother our principal wants, so that there may be four eyes on the lookout,as we go, instead of two.""I consent," said Helen; "pray what are your wants?""Iron, oil, salt, tar, a bellows, a pickax, planks, thread, nets, lightmatting for roofs, bricks, chimney-pots, jars, glass, animal food, somevariety of vegetable food, and so on. I'll write down the entire list foryou.""You will be puzzled to do that without ink or paper.""Not in the least. I shall engrave it in _alto-rilievo,_ make the wordswith pebbles on the turf just above high-water mark. Now tell me _your_wants.""Well, I want--impossibilities.""Enumerate them.""What is the use?""It is the method we have agreed upon.""Oh, very well, then. I want--a sponge.""Good. What next?""I have broken my comb.""Good.""I'm glad you think so. I want--Oh, Mr. Hazel, what _is_ the use?--well,I should like a mattress to lie on.""Hair or wool?""I don't care which. And it is a shame to ask you for either.""Go on.""I want a looking-glass.""Great Heaven! What for?""Oh, never mind; I want one. And some more towels, and some soap, and afew hair-pins; and some elastic bands; and some pen, ink and paper, towrite my feelings down in this island for nobody ever to see."When she began Hazel looked bright, but the list was like a wasp, itssting lay in its tail. However, he put a good face on it. "I'll try andget you all those things; only give me time. Do you know I am writing adictionary on a novel method.""That means on the sand.""No; the work is suspended for the present. But two of the definitions init are--DIFFICULTIES--things to be subdued; IMPOSSIBILITIES--things to betrampled on.""Well, subdue mine. Trample on--a sponge for me.""That is just what I was going to do," said he; opened a clasp-knife andjumped coolly into the river.Helen screamed faintly, but after all the water was only up to his knees.He soon cut a large sponge off a piece of slimy rock, and held it up toher. "There," said he, "why, there are a score of them at your very doorand you never saw them.""Oh, excuse me, I did see them and shuddered; I thought they werereptiles; dormant and biding their time."When he was out of the river again, she thought a little, and asked himwhether old iron would be of any use to him."Oh, certainly," said he; "what, do you know of any?""I think I saw some one day. I'll go and look for it."She took the way of the shore; and he got his cart and spade, and wentposthaste to his clay-pit.He made a quantity of bricks, and brought them home, and put them to dryin the sun. He also cut great pieces of the turtle, and wrapped them infresh banana-leaves, and inclosed them in clay. He then tried to make alarge narrow-necked vessel, and failed utterly; so he made the clay intoa great rude platter like a shallow milk-pan. Then he peeled the sago-logoff which he had cut his wheels, and rubbed it with turtle fat, and,using it as a form, produced two clay cylinders. These he set in the sun,with bricks round them to keep them from falling. Leaving all these todry and set before he baked them, he went off to the marsh forfern-leaves. The soil being so damp, the trees were covered with abrownish-red substance, scarce distinguishable from wool. This he hadcounted on. But he also found in the same neighborhood a longcypress-haired moss that seemed to him very promising. He made severaltrips, and raised quite a stack of fern-leaves. By this time the sun hadoperated on his thinner pottery; so he laid down six of his large thicktiles, and lighted a fire on them with dry banana-leaves, and cocoanut,etc., and such light combustibles, until he had heated and hardened theclay; then he put the ashes on one side, and swept the clay clean; thenhe put the fire on again, and made it hotter and hotter, till the claybegan to redden.While he was thus occupied, Miss Rolleston came from the jungle radiant,carrying vegetable treasures in her apron. First she produced some goldenapples with reddish leaves."There," said she; "and they smell delicious."Hazel eyed them keenly."You have not eaten any of them?""What! by myself?" said Helen."Thank Heaven!" said Hazel, turning pale. "These are the manchanilla, thepoison apple of the Pacific.""Poison!" said Helen, alarmed in her turn."Well, I don't _know_ that they are poison; but travelers give them avery bad name. The birds never peck them; and I have read that even theleaves, falling into still water have killed the fish. You will not eatanything here till you have shown it me, will you?" said he, imploringly."No, no," said Helen; and sat down with her hand to her heart a minute."And I was so pleased when I found them," she said; "they reminded me ofhome. I wonder whether these are poison, too?" and she opened her apronwide, and showed him some long yellow pods, with red specks, somethinglike a very large banana."Ah, that is a very different affair," said Hazel, delighted; "these areplantains, and the greatest find we have made yet. The fruit is meat, thewood is thread, and the leaf is shelter and clothes. The fruit is goodraw, and better baked, as you shall see, and I believe this is the firsttime the dinner and the dish were both baked together."He cleared the now heated hearth, put the meat and fruit on it, thenplaced his great platter over it, and heaped fire round the platter, andlight combustibles over it. While this was going on, Helen took him toher bower, and showed him three rusty iron hoops, and a piece of rottenwood with a rusty nail, and the marks where others had been. "There,"said she; "that is all I could find.""Why, it is a treasure," cried he; "you will see. I have found something,too."He then showed her the vegetable wool and vegetable hair he hadcollected, and told her where they grew. She owned they were wonderfulimitations, and would do as well as the real things; and, ere they haddone comparing notes, the platter and the dinner under it were bothbaked. Hazel removed the platter or milk-pan, and served the dinner init.If Hazel was inventive, Helen was skillful and quick at any kind ofwoman's work; and the following is the result of the three weeks' workunder his direction. She had made as follows:1. Thick mattress, stuffed with the vegetable hair and wool describedabove. The mattress was only two feet six inches wide; for Helen foundthat she never turned in bed now. She slept as she had never sleptbefore. This mattress was made with plantain-leaves sewed together withthe thread furnished by the tree itself, and doubled at the edges.2. A long shallow net four feet deep--cocoa-fiber.3. A great quantity of stout grass rope, and light but close matting forthe roof, and some cocoanut matting for the ground and to go under themattress. But Hazel, instructed by her, had learned to plait--ratherclumsily--and he had a hand in the matting.Hazel in the meantime heightened his own mud banks in the center, and setup brick fireplaces with hearth and chimney; one on each side; and nowdid all the cooking; for he found the smoke from wood made Miss Rollestoncough. He also made a number of pigeon-holes in his mud walls and linedthem with clay. One of these he dried with fire, and made a pottery doorto it, and there kept the lucifer-box. He made a vast number of bricks,but did nothing with them. After several failures he made two large pots,and two great pans, that would all four bear fire under them, and in thepans he boiled sea-water till it all evaporated and left him a sedimentof salt. This was a great addition to their food, and he managed also toput by a little. But it was a slow process.He made a huge pair of bellows, with a little assistance from MissRolleston; the spout was a sago-stick, with the pith driven out, and thesubstitute for leather was the skin of a huge eel he found stranded atthe east point.Having got his bellows and fixed them to a post he drove into the ground,he took for his anvil a huge flint stone, and a smaller one for hammer;heated his old iron to a white heat, and hammered it with a world oftrouble into straight lengths; and at last with a portion of it produceda long saw without teeth, but one side sharper than the other. This, byrepeated experiments of heating and immersing in water, he at lastannealed; and when he wanted to saw he blew his embers to a white heat(he kept the fire alive now night and day); heated his original sawred-hot, and soon sawed through the oleaginous woods of that island. Ifhe wanted to cut down a tree in the jungle, he put the bellows and a potof embers on his cart with other fuel, and came and lighted the fireunder the tree and soon had it down. He made his pickax in half an hour,but with his eyes rather than his hands. He found a young tree growing onthe rock, or at least on soil so shallow that the root was half aboveground and at right angles to the stem. He got this tree up, shortenedthe stem, shaped the root, shod the point with some of his late old iron;and with this primitive tool, and a thick stake baked at the point, heopened the ground to receive twelve stout uprights, and he drove themwith a tremendous mallet made upon what might be called the compendiousor Hazelian method; it was a section of a hard tree with a thick shootgrowing out of it, which shoot, being shortened, served for the handle.By these arts he at last saw a goal to his labors. Animal food, oil,pitch, ink, paper, were still wanting; but fish were abundant, andplantains and cocoanuts stored. Above all, Helen's hut was nowweather-tight. Stout horizontal bars were let into the trees, and, beingbound to the uprights, they mutually supported each other; smallerhorizontal bars at intervals kept the prickly ramparts from being drivenin by a sudden gust. The canvas walls were removed and the nails storedin a pigeon-hole, and a stout network substituted, to which huge plantainleaves were cunningly fastened with plantain thread. The roof was double:first, that extraordinary mass of spiked leaves which the four treesthrew out, then several feet under that the huge piece of matting thepair had made. This was strengthened by double strips of canvas at theedges and in the center, and by single strips in other parts. A greatmany cords and strings made of that wonderful grass were sewn to thecanvas-strengthened edges, and so it was fastened to the trees andfastened to the horizontal bars.When this work drew close to its completion, Hazel could not disguise hissatisfaction.But he very soon had the mortification of seeing that she for whom it wasall done did not share his complacency. A change took place in her; sheoften let her work fall, and brooded. She spoke sometimes sharply to Mr.Hazel, and sometimes with strained civility. She wandered away from himand from his labors for her comfort, and passed hours at Telegraph Point,eying the illimitable ocean. She was a riddle. All sweetness at times,but at others irritable, moody, and scarce mistress of herself. Hazel wassorry and perplexed, and often expressed a fear she was ill. The answerwas always in the negative. He did not press her, but worked on for her,hoping the mood would pass. And so it would, no doubt, if the cause hadnot remained.Matters were still in this uncomfortable and mysterious state when Hazelput his finishing stroke to her abode.He was in high spirits that evening, for he had made a discovery; he hadat last found time for a walk, and followed the river to its source, avery remarkable lake in a hilly basin. Near this was a pond, the water ofwhich he had tasted and found it highly bituminous; and, making furtherresearches, he had found at the bottom of a rocky ravine a very wonderfulthing--a dark resinous fluid bubbling up in quite a fountain, which,however, fell down again as it rose, and hardly any overflowed. It waslike thin pitch.Of course in another hour he was back there with a great pot, and halffilled it. It was not like water, it did not bubble so high when some hadbeen taken; so he just took what he could get. Pursuing his researches alittle further he found a range of rocks with snowy summits apparently;but the snow was the guano of centuries. He got to the western extremityof the island, saw another deep bay or rather branch of the sea, and onthe other side of it a tongue of high land running out to sea. On thatpromontory stood a gigantic palmtree. He recognized that with a certainthrill, but was in a great hurry to get home with his pot of pitch; forit was in truth a very remarkable discovery, though not without aparallel. He could not wait till morning, so with embers and cocoanut hemade a fire in the bower, and melted his pitch, which had become nearlysolid, and proceeded to smear the inside of the matting in places, tomake it thoroughly watertight.Helen treated the discovery at first with mortifying indifference. But hehoped she would appreciate Nature's bounty more when she saw thepractical use of this extraordinary production. He endeavored to lead herto that view. She shook her head sorrowfully. He persisted. She met himwith silence. He thought this peevish, and ungrateful to Heaven; we haveall different measures of the wonderful; and to him a fountain of pitchwas a thing to admire greatly and thank God for; he said as much.To Helen it was nasty stuff, and who cares where it came from? Sheconveyed as much by a shrug of the shoulders, and then gave a sigh thattold her mind was far away.He was a little mortified, and showed it. One word led to another, and atlast what had been long fermenting came out."Mr. Hazel," said she, "you and I are at cross purposes. You mean to livehere. I do not."Hazel left off working, and looked greatly perplexed; the attack was sosudden in its form, though it had been a long time threatening. He foundnothing to say, and she was impatient now to speak her mind, so shereplied to his look."You are making yourself at home here. You are contented. Contented? Youare _happy_ in this horrible prison.""And why not?" said Hazel. But he looked rather guilty. "Here are notraitors; no murderers. The animals are my friends, and the one humanbeing I see makes me better to look at her.""Mr. Hazel, I am in a state of mind, that romantic nonsense jars on me.Be honest with me, and talk to me like a man. I say that you beam allover with happiness and content, and that you-- Now answer me onequestion; why have you never lighted the bonfire on Telegraph Point?""Indeed I don't know," said he, submissively. "I have been so occupied.""You have, and how? Not in trying to deliver us both from this dreadfulsituation, but to reconcile me to it. Yes, sir, under pretense (that is aharsh word, but I can't help it) of keeping out the rain. Your rain is a_bugbear;_ it never rains, it never will rain. You are killing yourselfalmost to make me comfortable in this place. Comfortable?" She began totremble all over with excitement long restrained. "And do you reallysuppose you can make me live on like this, by building me a nice hut. Doyou think I am all body and no soul, that shelter and warmth and enoughto eat can keep my heart from breaking, and my cheeks from blushing nightand day? When I wake in the morning I find myself blushing to my fingers'ends." Then she walked away from him. Then she walked back. "Oh, my dearfather, why did I ever leave you! Keep me here? make me live months andyears on this island? Have you sisters? Have you a mother? Ask yourself,is it likely? No; if you will not help me, and they don't love me enoughto come and find me and take me home, I'll go to another home withoutyour help or any man's." Then she rose suddenly to her feet. "I'll tie myclothes tight round me, and fling myself down from that point on to thesharp rocks below. I'll find a way from this place to heaven, if there'sno way from it to those I love on earth."Then she sank down and rocked herself and sobbed hard.The strong passion of this hitherto gentle creature quite frightened herunhappy friend, who knew more of books than women. He longed to sootheher and comfort her; but what could he say? He cried out in despair, "MyGod, can I do nothing for her?"She turned on him like lightning. "You can do anything--everything. Youcan restore us both to our friends. You can save my life, my reason. Forthat will go first, I think. What _had_ I done? what had I _ever_ donesince I was born, to be so brought down? Was ever an English lady-- Andthen I have such an irritation on my skin, all over me. I sometimes wishthe tiger would come and tear me all to pieces; yes, all to pieces." Andwith that her white teeth clicked together convulsively. "Do?" said she,darting back to the point as swiftly as she had rushed away from it."Why, put down that nasty stuff; and leave off inventing fifty littletrumpery things for me, and do one great thing instead. Oh, do notfritter that great mind of yours away in painting and patching my prison;but bring it all to bear on getting me _out_ of my prison. Call sea andland to our rescue. Let them know a poor girl is here in unheard-of,unfathomable misery--here, in the middle of this awful ocean."Hazel sighed deeply. "No ships seem to pass within sight of us," hemuttered."What does that matter to _you?_ You are not a common man; you are aninventor. Rouse all the powers of your mind. There must be some way.Think for me. THINK! THINK! or my blood will be on your head."Hazel turned pale and put his head in his hands, and tried to think.She leaned toward him with great flashing eyes of purest hazel.The problem dropped from his lips a syllable at a time. "Todiffuse--intelligence--a hundred leagues from a fixed point--an island?"She leaned toward him with flashing, expectant eyes.But he groaned, and said: "That seems impossible.""Then _trample_ on it," said she, bringing his own words against him; forshe used to remember all he said to her in the day, and ponder it atnight--"trample on it, subdue it, or never speak to me again. Ah, I am anungrateful wretch to speak so harshly to you. It is my misery, not me.Good, kind Mr. Hazel, oh, pray, pray, pray bring all the powers of thatgreat mind to bear on this one thing, and save a poor girl, to whom youhave been so kind, so considerate, so noble, so delicate, so forbearing;now save me from despair."Hysterical sobs cut her short here, and Hazel, whose loving heart she hadalmost torn out of his body, could only falter out in a broken voice,that he would obey her. "I'll work no more for you at present," said he,"sweet as it has been. I will think instead. I will go this momentbeneath the stars and think all night."The young woman was now leaning her head languidly back against one ofthe trees, weak as water after her passion. He cast a look of ineffablelove and pity on her, and withdrew slowly to think beneath the tranquilstars.Love has set men hard tasks in his time. Whether this was a light one,our reader shall decide.TO DIFFUSE INTELLIGENCE FROM A FIXED ISLAND OVER A HUNDRED LEAGUES OFOCEAN.CHAPTER XXVII.THE perplexity into which Hazel was thrown by the outburst of hiscompanion rendered him unable to reduce her demand at once to anintelligible form. For some moments he seriously employed his mind on theproblem until it assumed this shape.Firstly: I do not know where this island is, having no means ofascertaining either its latitude or longitude.Secondly: If I had such a description of its locality, how might the newsbe conveyed beyond the limits of the place?As the wildness of Helen's demand broke upon his mind, he smiled sadly,and sat down upon the bank of the little river, near his boat-house, andburied his head in his hands. A deep groan burst from him, and the tearsat last came through his fingers, as in despair he thought how vain mustbe any effort to content or to conciliate her. Impatient with his ownweakness he started to his feet, when a hand was laid gently upon hisarm. She stood beside him."Mr. Hazel," she said hurriedly--her voice was husky--"do not mind what Ihave said. I am unreasonable; and I am sure I ought to feel obliged toyou for all the--"Hazel turned his face toward her, and the moon glistened on the tearsthat still flowed down his cheeks. He tried to check the utterance of herapology; but, ere he could master his voice, the girl's cold andconstrained features seemed to melt. She turned away, wrung her hands,and, with a sharp, quivering cry, she broke forth:"Oh, sir! oh, Mr. Hazel! do forgive me. I am not ungrateful, indeed,indeed, I am not; but I am mad with despair. Judge me with compassion. Atthis moment, those who are very, very dear to me are awaiting my arrivalin London; and, when they learn the loss of the _Proserpine,_ how greatwill be their misery! Well, that misery is added to mine. Then my poorpapa. He will never know how much he loved me until this news reacheshim. And to think that I am dead to them, yet living! living herehelplessly, helplessly. Dear, dear Arthur, how you will suffer for mysake! Oh, papa, papa! shall I never see you again?" and she weptbitterly."I am helpless either to aid or to console you, Miss Rolleston. By theact of a Divine Providence you were cast upon this desolate shore, and bythe same Will I was appointed to serve and to provide for your welfare. Ipray God that He will give me health and strength to assist you.Good-night."She looked timidly at him for a moment, then slowly regained her hut. Hehad spoken coldly and with dignity. She felt humbled, the more so that hehad only bowed his acknowledgment to her apology.For more than an hour she watched him, as he paced up and down betweenthe boat-house and the shore; then he advanced a little toward hershelter, and she shrank into her bed, after gently closing the door. In afew moments she crept again to peep forth, and to see if he were stillthere; but he had disappeared.The following morning Helen was surprised to see the boat riding atanchor in the surf, and Hazel busily engaged on her trim. He was soon onshore, and by her side."I am afraid I must leave you for a day, Miss Rolleston," he said. "Iwish to make a circuit of the island; indeed I ought to have done so manydays ago.""Is such an expedition necessary? Surely you have had enough of the sea.""It is very necessary. You have urged me to undertake this enterprise.You see, it is the first step toward announcing to all passing vesselsour presence in this place. I have commenced operations already. See onyonder bluff, which I have called Telegraph Point, I have mounted theboat's ensign, and now it floats from the top of the tree beside thebonfire. I carried it there at sunrise. Do you see that pole I haveshipped on board the boat? That is intended as a signal, which shall beexhibited on your great palm-tree. The flag will then stand for a signalon the northern coast, and the palm-tree, thus accoutered, will serve fora similar purpose on the western extremity of the island. As I pass alongthe southern and eastern shores, I propose to select spots where somemark can be erected, such as may be visible to ships at sea.""But will they remark such signals?""Be assured they will, if they come within sight of the place."Hazel knew that there was little chance of such an event; but it wassomething not to be neglected. He also explained that it was necessary heshould arrive at a knowledge of the island, the character of its shores;and from the sea he could rapidly obtain a plan of the place, ascertainwhat small rivers there might be, and, indeed, see much of its interior;for he judged it to be not more than ten miles in length, and scarcethree in width.Helen felt rather disappointed that no trace of the emotion he displayedon the previous night remained in his manner or in the expression of hisface. She bowed her permission to him rather haughtily, and sat down tobreakfast on some baked yams, and some rough oysters, which he had rakedup from the bay while bathing that morning. The young man had regained anelasticity of hearing, an independence of tone, to which she was not atall accustomed; his manners were always soft and deferential; but hisexpression was more firm, and she felt that the reins had been gentlyremoved from her possession, and there was a will to guide her which shewas bound to acknowledge and obey.She did not argue in this wise, for it is not human to reason and to feelat the same moment. She felt then instinctively that the man was quietlyasserting his superiority, and the child pouted.Hazel went about his work briskly; the boat was soon laden with everyrequisite. Helen watched these preparations askance, vexed with theexpedition which she had urged him to make. Then she fell to reflectingon the change that seemed to have taken place in her character; she, whowas once so womanly, so firm, so reasonable--why had she become sopetulant, childish, and capricious?The sail was set, and all ready to run the cutter into the surf of therising tide, when, taking a sudden resolution, as it were, Helen camerapidly down and said, "I will go with you, if you please," half incommand and half in doubt. Hazel looked a little surprised, but verypleased; and then she added, "I hope I shall not be in your way."He assured her, on the contrary, that she might be of great assistance tohim; and now with double alacrity he ran out the little vessel and leapedinto the prow as she danced over the waves. He taught her how to bringthe boat's head round with the help of an oar, and, when all was snug,left her at the helm. On reaching the mouth of the bay, if it could so becalled, he made her remark that it was closed by reefs, except to thenorth and to the west. The wind being southerly, he had decided to passto the west, and so they opened the sea about half a mile from the shore.For about three miles they perceived it consisted of a line of bluffs,cleft at intervals by small narrow bays, the precipitous sides of whichwere lined with dense foliage. Into these fissures the sea entered with amournful sound, that died away as it crept up the yellow sands with whichthese nooks were carpeted. An exclamation from Helen attracted hisattention to the horizon on the northwest, where a long line of breakersglittered in the sun. A reef or low sandy bay appeared to exist in thatdirection, about fifteen miles away, and something more than a mile inlength. As they proceeded, he marked roughly on the side of his tinbaler, with the point of a pin borrowed from Helen, the form of the coastline.An hour and a half brought them to the northwestern extremity of theisland. As they cleared the shelter of the land, the southerly breezecoming with some force across the open sea caught the cutter, and she layover in a way to inspire Helen with alarm; she was about to let go thetiller, when Hazel seized it, accidentally inclosing her hand under thegrasp of his own, as he pressed the tiller hard to port."Steady, please; don't relinquish your hold; it is all right--no fear,"he cried, as he kept his eye on their sail.He held this course for a mile or more, and then, judging with a longtack he could weather the southerly side of the island he put the boatabout. He took occasion to explain to Helen how this operation wasnecessary, and she learned the alphabet of navigation. The western end oftheir little land now lay before them; it was about three miles inbreadth. For two miles the bluff coast line continued unbroken; then adeep bay, a mile in width and two miles in depth, was made by a longtongue of sand projecting westerly; on its extremity grew the giganticpalm, well recognized as Helen's landmark. Hazel stood up in the boat toreconnoiter the coast. He perceived the sandy shore was dotted withmultitudes of dark objects. Ere long, these objects were seen to be inmotion, and, pointing them out to Helen, with a smile, he said:"Beware, Miss Rolleston, yonder are your bugbears--and in some force,too. Those dark masses, moving upon the hillocks of sand, or rolling onthe surf, are sea-lions--the _phoca leonina,_ or lion-seal."Helen strained her eyes to distinguish the forms, but only descried thedingy objects. While thus engaged, she allowed the cutter to fall off alittle, and, ere Hazel had resumed his hold upon the tiller, they werefairly in the bay; the great palm-tree on their starboard bow."You seem determined to make the acquaintance of your nightmares," heremarked; "you perceive that we are embayed."Her consternation amused him; she saw that, if they held their presentcourse, the cutter would take the beach about a mile ahead, where theseanimals were densely crowded.At this moment, something dark bulged up close beside her in the sea, andthe rounded back of a monster rolled over and disappeared. Hazel let dropthe sail, for they were now fairly in the smooth water of the bay, andclose to the sandy spit; the gigantic stem of the palm-tree was on theirquarter, about half a mile off.He took to the oars, and rowed slowly toward the shore. A small seal rosebehind the boat and followed them, playing with the blade, its gambolsresembling that of a kitten. He pointed out to Helen the mild expressionof the creature's face and assured her that all this tribe were harmlessanimals, and susceptible of domestication. The cub swam up to the boatquite fearlessly, and he touched its head gently; he encouraged her to dothe like, but she shrank from its contact. They were now close ashore,and Hazel, throwing out his anchor in two feet of water, prepared to landthe beam of wood he had brought to decorate the palm-tree as a signal.The huge stick was soon heaved overboard, and he leaped after it. Hetowed it to the nearest landing to the tree, and dragged it high up onshore. Scarcely had he disposed it conveniently, intending to return in aday or two, with the means of affixing it in a prominent and remarkablemanner, in the form of a spar across the trunk of the palm, when a cryfrom Helen recalled him. A large number of the sea-lions were coastingquietly down the surf toward the boat; indeed, a dozen of them had madetheir appearance around it.Hazel shouted to her not to fear, and, desiring that her alarm should notspread to the swarm, he passed back quietly but rapidly. When he reachedthe water, three or four of the animals were already floundering betweenhim and the boat. He waded slowly toward one of them, and stood besideit. The man and the creature looked quietly at each other, and then theseal rolled over, with a snuffling, self-satisfied air, winking its softeyes with immense complacency.Helen, in her alarm, could not resist a smile at this conclusion of soterrible a demonstration; for, with all their gentle expression, thetusks of the brute looked formidable. But, when she saw Hazel pushingthem aside, and patting a very small cub on the back, she recovered hercourage completely.Then he took to his oars again; and aided by the tide, which was now onthe ebb, he rowed round the southwestern extremity of the island. Hefound the water here, as he anticipated, very shallow.It was midday when they were fairly on the southern coast; and now,sailing with the wind aft, the cutter ran through the water at racingspeed. Fearing that some reefs or rocky formations might exist in theircourse, he reduced sail, and kept away from the shore about a mile. Atthis distance he was better able to see inland, and mark down theaccident of its formation.The southern coast was uniform, and Helen said it resembled the cliffs ofthe Kentish or Sussex coast of England, only the English white was herereplaced by the pale volcanic gray. By one o'clock they came abreast thevery spot where they had first made land; and, as they judged, due southof their residence. Had they landed here, a walk of three miles acrossthe center of the island would have brought them home.For about a similar distance the coast exhibited monotonous cliffsunbroken even by a rill. It was plain that the water-shed of the islandwas all northward. They now approached the eastern end, where rose thecircular mountain of which mention has been already made. This eminencehad evidently at one time been detached from the rest of the land, towhich it was now joined by a neck of swamp about a mile and a half inbreadth, and two miles in length.Hazel proposed to reconnoiter this part of the shore nearly, and ran theboat close in to land. The reeds or canes with which this bog was denselyclothed grew in a dark, spongy soil. Here and there this waste was dottedwith ragged trees which he recognized as the cypress. From its gauntbranches hung a black, funeral kind of weeper, a kind of moss resemblingiron-gray horse-hair both in texture and uses, though not so long in thestaple.This parasite, Hazel explained to Helen, was very common in such marshyground, and was the death-flag hung out by Nature to warn man thatmalaria and fever were the invisible and inalienable inhabitants of thatfatal neighborhood.Looking narrowly along the low shore for some good landing, where undershelter of a tree they might repose for an hour, and spread their middayrepast, they discovered an opening in the reeds, a kind of lagoon orbayou, extending into the morass between the highlands of the island andthe circular mountain, but close under the base of the latter. This inlethe proposed to explore, and accordingly the sail was taken down, and thecutter was poled into the narrow creek. The water here was so shallowthat the keel slid over the quicksand into which the oar sank freely. Thecreek soon became narrow, the water deeper, and of a blacker color, andthe banks more densely covered with canes. These grew to the height often and twelve feet, and as close as wheat in a thick crop. The air feltdank and heavy, and hummed with myriads of insects. The black waterbecame so deep and the bottom so sticky that Hazel took to the oarsagain. The creek narrowed as they proceeded, until it proved scarcelywide enough to admit of his working the boat. The height of the reedshindered the view on either side. Suddenly, however, and after proceedingvery slowly through the bends of the canal, they decreased in height anddensity, and they emerged into an open space of about five acres inextent, a kind of oasis in this reedy desert, created by a mossy moundwhich arose amid the morass, and afforded firm footing, of which a groveof trees and innumerable shrubs availed themselves. Helen uttered anexclamation of delight as this island of foliage in a sea of reeds mether eyes, that had been famished with the arid monotony of the brake.They soon landed.Helen insisted on the preparations for their meal being left to her, and,having selected a sheltered spot, she was soon busy with their frugalfood. Hazel surveyed the spot, and, selecting a red cedar, was soonseated forty feet above her head, making a topographical survey of theneighborhood. He found that the bayou by which they had entered continuedits course to the northern shore, thus cutting off the mountain oreasterly end, and forming of it a separate island. He saw that a quarterof a mile farther on the bayou or canal parted, forming two streams, ofwhich that to the left seemed the main channel. This he determined tofollow. Turning to the west, that is, toward their home, he saw at adistance of two miles a crest of hills broken into cliffs, which definedthe limit of the mainland. The sea had at one time occupied the sitewhere the morass now stood. These cliffs formed a range extending fromnorth to south. Their precipitous sides, clothed here and there withtrees, marked where the descent was broken by platforms. Between him andthis range the morass extended. Hazel took note of three places where thedescent from these hills into the marsh could, he believed, most readilybe made.On the eastern side and close above him arose the peculiar mountain. Itsform was that of a truncated cone, and its sides densely covered withtrees of some size.The voice of Helen called him from his perch, and he descended quickly,leaping into a mass of brushwood growing at the foot of his tree. Helenstood a few yards from him, in admiration, before a large shrub."Look, Mr. Hazel, what a singular production," said the girl, as shestooped to examine the plant. It bore a number of red flowers, eachgrowing out of a fruit like a prickly pear. These flowers were in variousstages; some were just opening like tulips, others, more advanced, hadexpanded like umbrellas, and quite overlapped the fruit, keeping it fromsun and dew; others had served their turn in that way, and been witheredby the sun's rays. But, wherever this was the case, the fruit had alsoburst open and displayed or discharged its contents, and those contentslooked like seeds; but on narrower inspection proved to be little insectswith pink transparent wings, and bodies of incredibly vivid crimson.Hazel examined the fruit and flowers very carefully, and stood rapt,transfixed."It must be!--and it is!" said he, at last. "Well, I'm glad I've not diedwithout seeing it.""What is it?" said she."One of the most valuable productions of the earth. It is cochineal. Thisis the Tunal tree.""Oh, indeed," said Helen, indifferently. "Cochineal is used for a dye;but as it is not probable we shall require to dye anything, the discoveryseems to me more curious than useful.""You wanted some ink. This pigment, mixed with lime-juice, will form abeautiful red ink. Will you lend me your handkerchief and permit me totry if I have forgotten the method by which these little insects areobtained?" He asked her to hold her handkerchief under a bough of theTunal tree, where the fruit was ripe. He then shook the bough. Someinsects fell at once into the cloth. A great number rose and buzzed alittle in the sun not a yard from where they were born; but the sun driedtheir blood so promptly that they soon fell dead in the handkerchief.Those that the sun so killed went through three phases of color beforetheir eyes. They fell down black or nearly. They whitened on the cloth;and after that came gradually to their final color, a flaming crimson.The insect thus treated appeared the most vivid of all.They soon secured about half a teacupful; they were rolled up and putaway, then they sat down and made a very hearty meal, for it was now pasttwo o'clock. They re-entered the boat, and, passing once more into themorass, they found the channel of the bayou as it approached the northernshore less difficult of navigation. The bottom became sandy and hard, andthe presence of trees in the swamp proved that spots of _terra firma_were more frequent. But the water shallowed, and, as they opened theshore, he saw with great vexation that the tide in receding had left thebar at the mouth of the canal visible in some parts. He pushed on,however, until the boat grounded. This was a sad affair. There lay thesea not fifty yards ahead. Hazel leaped out, and examined and forded thechannel, which at this place was about two hundred feet wide. He found anarrow passage near the eastern side, and to this he towed the boat. Thenhe begged Miss Rolleston to land, and relieved the boat of the mast,sail, and oars. Thus lightened, he dragged her into the passage; but thetime occupied in these preparations had been also occupied by Nature--thetide had receded, and the cutter stuck immovably in the waterway, aboutsix fathoms short of deeper water."What is to be done now?" inquired Helen, when Hazel returned to herside, panting, but cheerful."We must await the rising of the tide. I fear we are imprisoned here forthree hours at least."There was no help for it. Helen made light of the misfortune. The spotwhere they had landed was inclosed between the two issues of the lagoon.They walked along the shore to the more easterly and the narrower canal,and, on arriving, Hazel found to his great annoyance that there was amplewater to have floated the cutter had he selected that, the leastpromising road. He suggested a return by the road they came, and, passinginto the other canal, by that to reach the sea. They hurried back, butfound by this time the tide had left the cutter high and dry on the sand.So they had no choice but to wait.Having three hours to spare, Hazel asked Miss Rolleston's permission toascend the mountain. She assented to remain near the boat while he wasengaged in this expedition. The ascent was too rugged and steep for herpowers, and the sea-shore and adjacent groves would find her ampleamusement during his absence. She accompanied him to the bank of thesmaller lagoon, which he forded, and waving an adieu to her he plungedinto the dense wood with which the sides of the mountain were clothed.She waited some time, and then she heard his voice shouting to her fromthe heights above. The mountain-top was about three-quarters of a milefrom where she stood, but seemed much nearer. She turned back toward theboat, walking slowly, but paused as a faint and distant cry again reachedher ear. It was not repeated, and then she entered the grove.The ground beneath her feet was soft with velvety moss, and the darkfoliage of the trees rendered the air cool and deliciously fragrant.After wandering for some time, she regained the edge of the grove nearthe boat, and selecting a spot at the foot of an aged cypress, she satdown with her back against its trunk. Then she took out Arthur's letter,and began to read those impassioned sentences; as she read she sigheddeeply, as earnestly she found herself pitying Arthur's condition morethan she regretted her own. She fell into reverie, and from reverie intoa drowsy languor. How long she remained in this state she could notremember, but a slight rustle overhead recalled her senses. Believing itto be a bird moving in the branches, she was resigning herself again torest, when she became sensible of a strange emotion--a conviction thatsomething was watching her with a fixed gaze. She cast her eyes around,but saw nothing. She looked upward. From the tree immediately above herlap depended a snake, its tail coiled around a dead branch. The reptilehung straight, its eyes fixed like two rubies upon Helen's, as veryslowly it let itself down by its uncoiling tail. Now its head was on alevel with hers; in another moment it must drop into her lap.She was paralyzed.CHAPTER XXVIII.AFTER toiling up a rugged and steep ascent, encumbered with blocks ofgray stone, of which the island seemed to be formed, forcing his way overfallen trees and through the tangled undergrowth of a species of wildvine, which abounded on the mountain-side, Hazel stopped to breathe andpeer around as well as the dense foliage permitted. He was up to hiswaist in scrub, and the stiff leaves of the bayonet plant renderedcaution necessary in walking. At moments, through the dense foliage, hecaught a glisten of the sea. The sun was in the north behind him, and bythis alone he guided his road due southerly and upward. Once only hefound a small cleared space about an acre in extent, and here it was heuttered the cry Helen heard. He waited a few moments in the hope to hearher voice in reply, but it did not reach him. Again he plunged upward,and now the ascent became at times so arduous that more than once healmost resolved to relinquish, or, at least, to defer his task; but amoment's rest recalled him to himself, and he was one not easily baffledby difficulty or labor, so he toiled on until he judged the summit oughtto have been reached. After pausing to take breath and counsel, hefancied that he had borne too much to the left, the ground to his rightappeared to rise more than the path that he was pursuing, which hadbecome level, and he concluded that, instead of ascending, he wascircling the mountain-top. He turned aside therefore, and after tenminutes' hard climbing he was pushing through a thick and high scrub,when the earth seemed to give way beneath him, and he fell--into anabyss.He was ingulfed. He fell from bush to bush-- down-- down-- scratch--rip-- plump! until he lodged in a prickly bush more winded than hurt. Outof this he crawled, only to discover himself thus landed in a great andperfectly circular plain of about thirty acres in extent, or about threehundred and fifty yards in diameter. In the center was a lake, alsocircular. The broad belt of shore around this lake was covered with richgrass, level as a bowling green, and all this again was surrounded by anearly perpendicular cliff, down which indeed he had fallen. This cliffwas thickly clothed with shrubs and trees.Hazel recognized the crater of an extinct volcano.On examining the lake he found the waters impregnated with volcanicproducts. Its bottom was formed of asphaltum. Having made a circuit ofthe shores, he perceived on the westerly side--that next the island--abreak in the cliff; and on a narrow examination he discovered an outlet.It appeared to him that the lake at one time had emptied its watersthrough this ancient water-course. The descent here was not only gradual,but the old river-bed was tolerably free from obstructions, especially ofthe vegetable kind.He made his way rapidly downward, and in half an hour reached marshyground. The cane-brake now lay before him. On his left he saw the sea onthe south, about a third of a mile. He knew that to the right must be thesea on the north, about half a mile or so. He bent his way thither. Theedge of the swamp was very clear, and, though somewhat spongy, affordedgood walking unimpeded. As he approached the spot where he judged theboat to be, the underwood thickened, the trees again interlaced theirarms, and he had to struggle through the foliage. At length he struck thesmaller lagoon, and, as he was not certain whether it was fordable, hefollowed its course to the shore, where he had previously crossed. In afew moments he reached the boat, and was pleased to find her afloat. Therising tide had even moved her a few feet back into the canal.Hazel shouted to apprise Miss Rolleston of his return, and then proceededto restore the mast to its place, and replace the rigging and the oars.This occupied some little time. He felt surprised that she had notappeared. He shouted again. No reply.CHAPTER XXIX.HAZEL advanced hurriedly into the grove, which he hunted thoroughly, butwithout effect. He satisfied himself that she could not have quitted thespot, since the marsh inclosed it on one side, the canals on the secondand third, the sea on the fourth. He returned to the boat more surprisedthan anxious. He waited awhile, and again shouted hername--stopped--listened--no answer.Yet surely Helen could not have been more than a hundred yards from wherehe stood. His heart beat with a strange sense of apprehension. He heardnothing but the rustling of the foliage and the sop of the waves on theshore, as the tide crept up the shingle. As his eyes roved in everydirection, he caught sight of something white near the foot of a witheredcypress-tree, not fifty yards from where he stood. He approached thebushes in which the tree was partially concealed on that side, andquickly recognized a portion of Helen's dress. He ran toward her--burstthrough the underwood, and gained the inclosure. She was sitting there,asleep, as he conjectured, her back leaning against the trunk. Hecontemplated her thus for one moment, and then he advanced, about toawaken her; but was struck speechless. Her face was ashy pale, her eyesopen and widely distended; her bosom heaved slowly. Hazel approachedrapidly, and called to her.Her eyes never moved, not a limb stirred. She sat glaring forward. On herlap was coiled a snake--gray, mottled with muddy green.Hazel looked round and selected a branch of the dead tree, about threefeet in length. Armed with this, he advanced slowly to the reptile. Itwas very quiet, thanks to the warmth of her lap. He pointed the stick atit; the vermin lifted its head, and its tail began to quiver; then itdarted at the stick, throwing itself its entire length. Hazel retreated,the snake coiled again and again darted. By repeating this process fouror five times, he enticed the creature away; and then, availing himselfof a moment before it could recoil, he struck it a smart blow on theneck.When Hazel turned to Miss Rolleston, he found her still fixed in theattitude into which terror had transfixed her. The poor girl had remainedmotionless for an hour, under the terrible fascination of the reptile,comatized. He spoke to her, but a quick spasmodic action of her throatand a quivering of her hands alone responded. The sight of her sufferingagonized him beyond expression, but he took her hands--he pressed them,for they were icy cold--he called piteously on her name. But she seemedincapable of effort. Then, stooping he raised her tenderly in his armsand carried her to the boat, where he laid her still unresisting andincapable.With trembling limbs and weak hands he launched the cutter, and they wereonce more afloat and bound homeward.He dipped the baler into the fresh water he had brought with him fortheir daily supply, and dashed it on her forehead. This he repeated untilhe perceived her breathing became less painful and more rapid. Then heraised her a little, and her head rested upon his arm. When they reachedthe entrance of the bay he was obliged to pass it, for, the wind beingstill southerly, he could not enter by the north gate, but came round andran in by the western passage, the same by which they had left the samemorning.Hazel bent over Helen, and whispered tenderly that they were at home. Sheanswered by a sob. In half an hour the keel grated on the sand near theboat-house. Then he asked her if she were strong enough to reach her hut.She raised her head, but she felt dizzy; he helped her to land; all powerhad forsaken her limbs; her head sank on his shoulder, and his arm, woundround her lithe figure, alone prevented her falling helplessly at hisfeet. Again he raised her in his arms and bore her to the hut. Here helaid her down on her bed, and stood for a moment beside her, unable torestrain his tears.CHAPTER XXX.IT was a wretched and anxious night for Hazel. He watched the hut,without the courage to approach it. That one moment of weakness whichoccurred to him on board the _Proserpine,_ when he had allowed Helen toperceive the nature of his feelings toward her, had rendered all hisactions open to suspicion. He dared not exhibit toward her anysympathy--he might not extend to her the most ordinary civility. If shefell ill, if fever supervened! how could he nurse her, attend upon her?His touch must have a significance, he knew that; for, as he bore herinsensible form, he embraced rather than carried the precious burden.Could he look upon her in her suffering without betraying his forbiddenlove? And then would not his attentions afflict more than console?Chewing the cud of such bitter thoughts, he passed the night withoutnoticing the change which was taking place over the island. The sun rose;and this awakened him from his reverie, which had replaced sleep; helooked around, and then became sensible of the warnings in the air.The sea-birds flew about vaguely and absurdly, and seemed sporting incurrents of wind; yet there was but little wind down below. Presentlyclouds came flying over the sky, and blacker masses gathered on thehorizon. The sea changed color.Hazel knew the weather was breaking. The wet season was at hand--themoment when fever, if such an invisible inhabitant there was on thatisland, would visit them. In a few hours the rain would be upon them, andhe reproached himself with want of care in the construction of the hut.For some hours he hovered around it, before he ventured to approach thedoor and call to Helen. He thought he heard her voice faintly, and heentered. She lay there as he had placed her. He knelt beside her, and wasappalled at the change in her appearance.The poor girl's system had received a shock for which it was unprepared.Her severe sufferings at sea had, strange to say, reduced her inappearance less than could have been believed; for her physical enduranceproved greater than that of the strong men around her. But the food whichthe island supplied was not suited to restore her strength, and thenervous shock to which she had been subjected was followed by completeprostration.Hazel took her unresisting hand, which he would have given a world topress. He felt her pulse; it was weak, but slow. Her cheeks were hollow,her eyes sunken; her hand dropped helplessly when he released it.Leaving the hut quietly, but hastily, he descended the hill to therivulet, which he crossed. About half a mile above the boathouse thestream forked, one of its branches coming from the west, the other fromthe east. Between this latter branch and Terrapin Wood was a stony hill;to this spot Hazel went, and fell to gathering a handful of poppies. Whenhe had obtained a sufficient quantity he returned to the boathouse, madea small fire of chips, and, filling his tin baler with water, he set downthe poppies to boil. When the liquor was cool, he measured out a portionand drank it. In about twenty minutes his temples began to throb, asensation which was rapidly followed by nausea.It was midday before he recovered from the effects of his experimentsufficiently to take food. Then he waited for two hours, and felt muchrestored. He stole to the hut and looked in. Helen lay there as he hadleft her. He stooped over her; her eyes were half closed, and she turnedthem slowly upon him; her lips moved a little--that was all. He felt herpulse again; it was still weaker, and slower. He rose and went away, and,regaining the boat-house, he measured out a portion of the poppy liquor,one-third of the dose he had previously taken, and drank it. No headacheor nausea succeeded; he felt his pulse; it became quick and violent;while a sense of numbness overcame him, and he slept. It was but for afew minutes. He awoke with a throbbing brow, and some sickness; but witha sense of delight at the heart, for he had found an opiate, andprescribed its quantity.He drained the liquor away from the poppy leaves, and carried it to thehut. Measuring with great care a small quantity, he lifted the girl'shead and placed it to her lips. She drank it mechanically. Then hewatched beside her, until her breathing and her pulse changed incharacter. She slept. He turned aside then, and buried his face in hishands and prayed fervently for her life--prayed as we pray for the dailybread of the heart. He prayed and waited.CHAPTER XXXI.THE next morning, when Helen awoke, she was very weak; her head ached,but she was herself. Hazel had made a broth for her from the fleshy partof a turtle; this greatly revived her, and by midday she was able to situp. Having seen that her wants were within her reach, he left her; but ina few moments she heard him busily engaged on the roof of her hut.On his return, he explained to her his fears that the structure wasscarcely as weather-proof as he desired; and he anticipated hourly thecommencement of the rainy season. Helen smiled and pointed to the sky,which here was clear and bright. But Hazel shook his head doubtingly. Thewet season would commence probably with an atmospheric convulsion, andthen settle down to uninterrupted rain. Helen refused obstinately tobelieve in more rain than they had experienced on board the boat--agenial shower."You will see," replied Hazel. "If you do not change your views withinthe next three days, then call me a false prophet."The following day passed, and Helen recovered more strength, but stillwas too weak to walk; but she employed herself, at Hazel's request, inmaking a rope of cocoanut fiber, some forty yards long. This he requiredto fish up the spar to a sufficient height on the great palm-tree, andbind it firmly in its place. While she worked nimbly, he employed himselfin gathering a store of such things as they would require during thecoming wintry season. She watched him with a smile, but he persevered. Sothat day passed. The next morning the rope was finished. Helen was not sowell, and was about to help herself to the poppy liquor, when Hazelhappily stopped her hand in time. He showed her the exact dose necessary,and explained minutely the effects of a larger draught. Then heshouldered the rope, and set out for Palm-tree Point.He was absent about six hours, of which Helen slept four. And for two,which seemed very long, she ruminated. What was she thinking of that madeher smile and weep at the same moment? and she looked so impatientlytoward the door.He entered at last, very fatigued. It was eleven miles to the Point andback. While eating his frugal supper, he gave her a detail of his day'sadventures. Strange to say, he had not seen a single seal on the sands.He described how he had tied one end of her rope to the middle of thespar, and, with the other between his teeth, he climbed the great palm.For more than an hour he toiled; he gained its top, passed the rope overone of its branches, and hauled up the spar to about eighty feet abovethe ground. Then, descending with the other end, he wound the ropespirally round and round the tree, thus binding to its trunk the firsttwenty feet by which the spar hung from the branch.She listened very carelessly, he thought, and betrayed little interest inthis enterprise which had cost him so much labor and fatigue.When he had concluded, she was silent awhile, and then, looking upquickly, said, to his great surprise:"I think I may increase the dose of your medicine there. You are mistakenin its power. I am sure I can take four times what you gave me.""Indeed you are mistaken," he answered quickly. "I gave you the extrememeasure you can take with safety.""How do you know that? You can only guess at its effects. At any rate, Ishall try it."Hazel hesitated, and then confessed that he had made a little experimenton himself before risking its effects upon her.Helen looked up at him as he said this so simply and quietly. Her greateyes filled with an angelic light. Was it admiration? Was itthankfulness? Her bosom heaved, and her lips quivered. It was but amoment, and she felt glad that Hazel had turned away from her and sawnothing.A long silence followed this little episode, when she was aroused fromher reverie.Patter--pat--pat--patter.She looked up.Pat--patter--patter.Their eyes met. It was the rain. Hazel only smiled a little, and then randown to his boat-house, to see that all was right there, and thenreturned with a large bundle of chips, with which he made a fire, for thesky had darkened overhead. Gusts of wind ran along the water; it hadbecome suddenly chilly. They had almost forgotten the feel of wetweather.Ere the fire had kindled, the rain came down in torrents, and, the mattedroof being resonant, they heard it strike here and there above theirheads.Helen sat down on her little stool and reflected.In that hut were two persons. One had foretold this, and feared it, andprovided against it. The other had said petulantly it was a bugbear.And now the rain was pattering, and the prophet was on his knees makingher as comfortable as he could in spite of all, and was not the man toremind her he had foretold it.She pondered his character while she watched his movements. He put downhis embers, then he took a cocoa-pod out from the wall, cut it in sliceswith his knife, and made a fine clear fire; then he ran out again, inspite of Helen's remonstrance, and brought a dozen large scales of thepalmtree. It was all the more cheering for the dismal scene without andthe pattering of the rain on the resounding roof.But, thanks to Hazel's precaution, the hut proved weather-tight; of whichfact having satisfied himself, he bade her good-night. He was at the doorwhen her voice recalled him."Mr. Hazel, I cannot rest this night without asking your pardon for allthe unkind things I may have done and said; without thanking you humblyfor your great forbearance and your--respect for the unhap-- I mean theunfortunate girl thus cast upon your mercy."She held out her hand; he took it between his own, and faintly expressedhis gratitude for her kindness; and so she sent him away brimful ofhappiness.The rain was descending in torrents. She heard it, but he did not feelit; for she had spread her angel's wings over his existence, and heregained his sheltered boat-house he knew not how.CHAPTER XXXII.THE next day was Sunday. Hazel had kept a calendar of the week, and everyseventh day was laid aside with jealousy, to be devoted to such simplereligious exercises as he could invent. The rain still continued, withless violence indeed, but without an hour's intermission. After breakfasthe read to her the exodus of the Israelites, and their sufferings duringthat desert life. He compared those hardships with their own troubles,and pointed out to her how their condition presented many things to bethankful for. The island was fruitful, the climate healthy. They mighthave been cast away on a sandy key or reef, where they would haveperished slowly and miserably of hunger and exposure. Then they werespared to each other. Had she been alone there, she could not haveprovided for herself; had he been cast away a solitary man, the islandwould have been to him an intolerable prison.In all these reflections Hazel was very guarded that no expression shouldescape him to arouse her apprehension. He was so careful of this that sheobserved his caution and watched his restraint. And Helen was thinkingmore of this than of the holy subject on which he was discoursing. Thedisguise he threw over his heart was penetrable to the girl's eye. Shesaw his love in every careful word, and employed herself in detecting itunder his rigid manner. Secure in her own position, she could examine hisfrom the loop-holes of her soul, and take a pleasure in witnessing thesuppressed happiness she could bestow with a word. She did not wonder ather power. The best of women have the natural vanity to take for grantedthe sway they assume over the existence which submits to them.A week passed thus, and Hazel blessed the rain that drove them to thissociability. He had prepared the bladder of a young seal which haddrifted ashore dead. This membrane, dried in the sun, formed a piece ofexcellent parchment, and he desired to draw upon it a map of the island.To accomplish this, the first thing was to obtain a good red ink from thecochineal, which is crimson. He did according to his means. He got one ofthe tin vessels and filed it till he had obtained a considerable quantityof the metal. This he subjected for forty hours to the action oflime-juice. He then added the cochineal, and mixed till he obtained afine scarlet. In using it he added a small quantity of a hard and puregum--he had found gum abounded in the island. His pen was made from anosprey's feather, hundreds of which were strewn about the cliffs, andsome of these he had already secured and dried.Placing his tin baler before him, on which he had scratched his notes, hedrew a map of the island."What shall we call it?" said he.Helen paused, and then replied, "Call it 'GODSEND' Island.""So I will," he said, and wrote it down.Then they named the places they had seen. The reef Helen had discoveredoff the northwest coast they called "White Water Island," because of thebreakers. Then came "Seal Bay," "Palm-tree Point," "Mount Lookout" (thiswas the hill due south of where they lived). They called the cane-brake"Wild Duck Swamp," and the spot where they lunched "Cochineal Clearing."The mountain was named "Mount Cavity.""But what shall we call the capital of the kingdom--this hut?" said MissRolleston, as she leaned over him and pointed to the spot."Saint Helen's," said Hazel, looking up; and he wrote it down ere shecould object.Then there was a little awkward pause, while he was busily occupied infilling up some topographical details. She turned it off gayly."What are those caterpillars that you have drawn there, sprawling over mykingdom?" she asked."Caterpillars! you are complimentary, Miss Rolleston. Those aremountains.""Oh, indeed; and those lines you are now drawing are rivers, I presume.""Yes; let us call this branch of our solitary estuary, which runswestward, the river Lea, and this, to the east, the river Medway. Is suchyour majesty's pleasure?"_"La Reine le veut,"_ replied Helen, smiling. "But, Master Geographer, itseems to me that you are putting in mountains and rivers which you havenever explored. How do you know that these turns and twists in the streamexist as you represent them? and those spurs, which look so real, haveyou not added them only to disguise the caterpillar character of yourrange of hills!"Hazel laughed as he confessed to drawing on his fancy for some littledetails. But pleaded that all geographers, when they drew maps, werelicensed to fill in a few such touches, where discovery had failed tosupply particulars.Helen had always believed religiously in maps, and was amused when shereflected on her former credulity.CHAPTER XXXIII.HELEN'S strength was coming back to her but slowly; she complained ofgreat lassitude and want of appetite. But, the following day havingcleared up, the sun shone out with great power and brilliancy. She gladlywelcomed the return of the fine weather, but Hazel shook his head; tendays' rain was not their portion--the bad weather would return, andcomplete the month or six weeks' winter to which Nature was entitled. Thenext evening the appearance of the sky confirmed his opinion. The sun setlike a crimson shield; gory, and double its usual size. It entered into athick bank of dark violet cloud that lay on the horizon, and seemed tosplit the vapor into rays, but of a dusky kind; immediately above thiscrimson the clouds were of a brilliant gold, but higher they were thecolor of rubies, and went gradually off to gray.But as the orb dipped to the horizon a solid pile of unearthly cloudscame up from the southeast; their bodies were singularly and unnaturallyblack, and mottled with copper-color, and hemmed with a fiery yellow. Andthese infernal clouds towered up their heads, pressing forward as if theyall strove for precedency; it was like Milton's fiends attacking the sky.The rate at which they climbed was wonderful. The sun set and the moonrose full, and showed those angry masses surging upward and jostling eachother as they flew.Yet below it was dead calm.Having admired the sublimity of the scene, and seen the full moon rise,but speedily lose her light in a brassy halo, they entered the hut, whichwas now the headquarters, and they supped together there.While they were eating their little meal the tops of the trees were heardto sigh, so still was everything else. None the less did those strangeclouds fly northward, eighty miles an hour. After supper, Helen sat busyover the fire, where some gum, collected by Hazel, resemblingIndia-rubber, was boiling; she was preparing to cover a pair of poorWelch's shoes, inside and out, with a coat of this material, which Hazelbelieved to be water-proof. She sat in such a position that he couldwatch her. It was a happy evening. She seemed content. She had got overher fear of him; they were good comrades if they were nothing more. Itwas happiness to him to be by her side even on those terms. He thought ofit all as he looked at her. How distant she had seemed once to him; whatan unapproachable goddess. Yet there she was by his side in a hut he hadmade for her.He could not help sipping the soft intoxicating draught her mere presenceoffered him. But by and by he felt his heart was dissolving within him,and he was trifling with danger. He must not look on her too long, seatedby the fire like a wife. The much-enduring man rose, and turned his backupon the sight he loved so dearly. He went out at the open door intendingto close it and bid her good-night. But he did not do so, just then; forhis attention as an observer of nature was arrested by the unusualconduct of certain animals. Gannets and other sea-birds were runningabout the opposite wood and craning their necks in a strange way. He hadnever seen one enter that wood before.Seals and sea-lions were surrounding the slope, and crawling about, andnow and then plunging into the river, which they crossed with infinitedifficulty, for it was running very high and strong. The trees alsosighed louder than ever. Hazel turned back to tell Miss Rollestonsomething extraordinary was going on. She sat in sight from the river,and, as he came toward the hut, he saw her sitting by the fire reading.He stopped short. Her work lay at her feet. She had taken out a letter,and she was reading it by the fire.As she read it her face was a puzzle. But Hazel saw the act alone; and adart of ice seemed to go through and through him.This, then, was her true source of consolation. He thought it was sobefore. He had even reason to think so. But, never seeing any palpableproofs, he had almost been happy. He turned sick with jealous misery, andstood there rooted and frozen.Then came a fierce impulse to shut the sight out that caused this pain.He almost flung her portoullis to, and made his hands bleed. But ableeding heart does not feel scratches."Good-night," said he hoarsely."Good-night," said she kindly.And why should she not read his letter? She was his affianced bride,bound to him by honor as well as inclination. This was the reflection towhich, after a sore battle with his loving heart, the much-enduring manhad to come at last; and he had come to it, and was getting back hispeace of mind, though not his late complacency, and about to seek reposein sleep, when suddenly a clap of wind came down like thunder, andthrashed the island and everything in it.Everything animate and inanimate seemed to cry out as the blow passed.Another soon followed, and another--intermittent gusts at present, but ofsuch severity that not one came without making its mark.Birds were driven away like paper; the sea-lions whimpered, and crouchedinto corners, and huddled together, and held each other, whining.Hazel saw but one thing; the frail edifice he had built for the creaturehe adored. He looked out of his boat, and fixed his horror-stricken eyeson it; he saw it waving to and fro, yet still firm. But he could not staythere. If not in danger she must be terrified. He must go and supporther. He left his shelter, and ran toward her hut. With a whoop and ascream another blast tore through the wood, and caught him. He fell, dughis hands into the soil, and clutched the earth. While he was in thatposition, he heard a sharp crack; he looked up in dismay, and saw thatone of Helen's trees had broken like a carrot, and the head was on theground leaping about; while a succession of horrible sounds of crashing,and rending, and tearing showed the frail hut was giving way on everyside; racked and riven, and torn to pieces. Hazel, though a stout man,uttered cries of terror death would never have drawn from him; and, witha desperate headlong rush, he got to the place where the bower had been;but now it was a prostrate skeleton, with the mat roof flapping like aloose sail above it, and Helen below.As he reached the hut, the wind got hold of the last of the four shrubsthat did duty for a door, and tore it from the cord that held it, andwhirled it into the air; it went past Hazel's face like a bird flying.Though staggered himself by the same blow of wind, he clutched the treeand got into the hut.He found her directly. She was kneeling beneath the mat that a fewminutes ago had been her roof. He extricated her in a moment, utteringinarticulate cries of pity and fear."Don't be frightened," said she. "I am not hurt."But he felt her quiver from head to foot. He wrapped her in all her rugs,and, thinking of nothing but her safety, lifted her in his strong arms totake her to his own place, which was safe from wind at least.But this was no light work. To go there erect was impossible.Holding tight by the tree, he got her to the lee of the tent and waitedfor a lull. He went rapidly down the hill, but, ere he reached the river,a gust came careering over the sea. A sturdy young tree was near him. Heplaced her against it, and wound his arms round her and its trunk. Theblast came. The tree bent down almost to the ground, then whirled round,recovered, shivered; but he held firmly. It passed. Again he lifted her,and bore her to the boat-house. As he went, the wind almost choked her,and her long hair lashed his face like a whip. But he got her in, andthen sat panting and crouching, but safe. They were none too soon; thetempest increased in violence, and became more continuous. No clouds, buta ghastly glare all over the sky. No rebellious waves, but a sea hissingand foaming under its master's lash. The river ran roaring and foamingby, and made the boat heave even in its little creek. The wind, though itcould no longer shake them, went screaming terribly close over theirheads--no longer like air in motion, but, solid and keen, it seemed theAlmighty's scythe mowing down Nature; and soon it became, like turbidwater, blackened with the leaves, branches and fragments of all kinds itwhirled along with it. The trees fell crashing on all sides, and theremains passed over their heads into the sea.Helen behaved admirably. Speech was impossible, but she thanked himwithout it--eloquently; she nestled her little hand into Hazel's, and, toHazel, that night, with all its awful sights and sounds, was a blissfulone. She had been in danger, but now was safe by his side. She hadpressed his hand to thank him, and now she was cowering a little towardhim in a way that claimed him as her protector. Her glorious hair blewover him and seemed to net him. And now and then, as they heard somecrash nearer and more awful than another, she clutched him quickly thoughlightly; for, in danger, her sex love to feel a friend; it is not enoughto see him near. And once, when a great dusky form of a sea-lion camecrawling over the mound, and whimpering peeped into the boathouse, sheeven fled to his shoulder with both hands for a moment, and was there,light as a feather, till the creature had passed on. And his soul wasfull of peace, and a great tranquillity overcame it. He heard nothing ofthe wrack, knew nothing of the danger.Oh, mighty Love! The tempest might blow, and fill the air and earth withruin, so that it spared her. The wind was kind, and gentle the night,which brought that hair round his face, and that head so near hisshoulder, and gave him the holy joy of protecting under his wing the softcreature he adored.CHAPTER XXXIV.ON the morning that followed this memorable night, our personages seemedto change characters. Hazel sat down before the relics of the hut--threeor four strings dangling, and a piece of network waving--and eyed themwith shame, regret and humiliation. He was so absorbed in hisself-reproaches that he did not hear a light footstep, and HelenRolleston stood near him a moment or two, and watched the play of hiscountenance with a very inquisitive and kindly light in her own eyes."Never mind," said she, soothingly.Hazel started at the music."Never mind your house being blown to atoms, and mine has stood?" saidhe, half reproachfully."You took too much pains with mine.""I will take a great deal more with the next.""I hope not. But I want you to come and look at the havoc. It isterrible; and yet so grand." And thus she drew him away from the sightthat caused his pain.They entered the wood by a path Hazel had cut from the sea-shore, andviewed the devastation in Terrapin Wood. Prostrate trees lay across oneanother in astonishing numbers, and in the strangest positions; and theirglorious plumes swept the earth. "Come," said she, "it is a bad thing forthe poor trees, but not for us. See, the place is strewed with treasures.Here is a tree full of fans all ready made. And what is that? A horse'stail growing on a cocoa-tree! and a long one, too! that will make ropesfor you, and thread for me. Ah, and here is a cabbage. Poor Mr. Welch!Well, for one thing, you need never saw nor climb any more. See theadvantages of a hurricane."From the wood she took him to the shore, and there they found many birdslying dead; and Hazel picked up several that he had read of as good toeat. For certain signs had convinced him his fair and delicate companionwas carnivorous, and must be nourished accordingly. Seeing him soemployed, she asked him archly whether he was beginning to see thecomforts of a hurricane. "Not yet," said he; "the account is far fromeven.""Then come to where the rock was blown down." She led the way gaylyacross the sands to a point where an overhanging crag had fallen, withtwo trees and a quantity of earth and plants that grew above it. But,when they got nearer, she became suddenly grave, and stood still. Themass had fallen upon a sheltered place, where seals were hiding from thewind, and had buried several; for two or three limbs were sticking out,of victims overwhelmed in the ruin; and a magnificent sea-lion lay clearof the smaller rubbish, but quite dead. The cause was not far to seek; aton of hard rock had struck him, and then ploughed up the sand in a deepfurrow, and now rested within a yard or two of the animal, whose back ithad broken. Hazel went up to the creature and looked at it; then he cameto Helen. She was standing aloof. "Poor bugbear," said he. "Come away; itis an ugly sight for you.""Oh, yes," said Helen. Then, as they returned, "Does not that reconcileyou to the loss of a hut? We are not blown away nor crushed.""That is true," said Hazel; "but suppose your health should suffer fromthe exposure to such fearful weather. So unlucky! so cruel! just as youwere beginning to get stronger.""I am all the better for it. Shall I tell you? excitement is a goodthing; not too often, of course; but now and then; and, when we are inthe humor for it, it is meat and drink and medicine to us.""What! to a delicate young lady?""Ay, 'to a delicate young lady.' Last night has done me a world of good.It has shaken me out of myself. I am in better health and spirits. Ofcourse I am very sorry the hut is blown down--because you took so muchtrouble to build it; but, on my own account, I really don't care a straw.Find me some corner to nestle in at night, and all day I mean to beabout, and busy as a bee, helping you, and-- Breakfast! breakfast! Oh,how hungry I am." And this spirited girl led the way to the boat with abriskness and a vigor that charmed and astonished him._Souvent femme vane._This gracious behavior did not blind Hazel to the serious character ofthe situation, and all breakfast-time he was thinking and thinking, andoften kept a morsel in his mouth, and forgot to eat it for severalseconds, he was so anxious and puzzled. At last he said, "I know a largehollow tree with apertures. If I were to close them all but one, and keepthat for the door? No: trees have betrayed me; I'll never trust anothertree with you. Stay; I know, I know--a cavern." He uttered the verbrather loudly, but the substantive with a sudden feebleness of intonationthat was amusing. His timidity was superfluous; if he had said he knew "abank whereon the wild thyme grows," the suggestion would have been wellreceived that morning."A cavern!" cried Helen. "It has always been the dream of my life to livein a cavern."Hazel brightened up. But the next moment he clouded again. "But I forgot.It will not do; there is a spring running right through it; it comes downnearly perpendicular through a channel it has bored, or enlarged; andsplashes on the floor.""How convenient!" said Helen; "now I shall have a bath in my room,instead of having to go miles for it. By the by, now you have inventedthe shower-bath, please discover soap. Not that one really wants any inthis island; for there is no dust, and the very air seems purifying. Butwho can shake off the prejudices of early education?"Hazel said, "Now I'll laugh as much as you like, when once this care isoff my mind."He ran off to the cavern, and found it spacious and safe; but the springwas falling in great force, and the roof of the cave glistening withmoisture. It looked a hopeless case. But if necessity is the mother ofInvention, surely Love is the father. He mounted to the rock above, andfound the spot where the spring suddenly descended into the earth withthe loudest gurgle he had ever heard; a gurgle of defiance. Nothing wasto be done there. But he traced it upward a little way, and found a placewhere it ran beside a deep decline. "Aha, my friend!" said he. He got hisspade, and with some hours' hard work dug it a fresh channel and carriedit away entirely from its course. He returned to the cavern. Water wasdripping very fast; but, on looking up, he could see the light of daytwinkling at the top of the spiral water course he had robbed of itssupply. Then he conceived a truly original idea. Why not turn his emptywatercourse into a chimney, and so give to one element what he had takenfrom another? He had no time to execute this just then, for the tide wascoming in, and he could not afford to lose any one of those dead animals.So he left the funnel to drip, that being a process he had no means ofexpediting, and moored the sea-lion to the very rock that had killed him,and was proceeding to dig out the seals, when a voice he never could hearwithout a thrill summoned him to dinner.It was a plentiful repast, and included roast pintado and cabbage-palm.Helen Rolleston informed him during dinner that he would no longer beallowed to monopolize the labor attendant upon their condition."No," said she, "you are always working for me, and I shall work for you.Cooking and washing are a woman's work, not a man's; and so are plaitingand netting."This healthy resolution once formed was adhered to with a constancy thatbelonged to the girl's character. The roof of the ruined hut came ashorein the bay that evening, and was fastened over the boat. Hazel lighted abonfire in the cavern, and had the satisfaction of seeing some of thesmoke issue above. But he would not let Miss Rolleston occupy it yet. Heshifted her things to the boat and slept in the cave himself. However, helost no time in laying down a great hearth, and built a fireplace andchimney in the cave. The chimney went up to the hole in the arch of thecave; then came the stone funnel, stolen from Nature; and above, on theupper surface of the cliff, came the chimney-pot. Thus the chimney actedlike a German stove: it stood in the center, and soon made the cavernvery dry and warm, and a fine retreat during the rains. When it was readyfor occupation, Helen said she would sail to it: she would not go byland; that was too tame for her. Hazel had only to comply with her humor,and at high water they got into the boat, and went down the river intothe sea with a rush that made Helen wince. He soon rowed her across thebay to a point distant not more than fifty yards from the cavern, andinstalled her. But he never returned to the river; it was an inconvenientplace to make excursions from; and besides, all his work was now eitherin or about the cavern; and that convenient hurricane, as Helen calledit, not only made him a builder again; it also made him a currier, asoap-boiler, and a salter. So they drew the boat just above high-watermark in a sheltered nook, and he set up his arsenal ashore.In this situation, day glided by after day, and week after week, invigorous occupations, brightened by social intercourse, and in somedegree by the beauty and the friendship of the animals. Of all thisindustry we can only afford a brief summary. Hazel fixed two uprights ateach side of the cavern's mouth, and connected each pair by a beam; anetting laid on these, and, covered with gigantic leaves from theprostrate palms, made a sufficient roof in this sheltered spot. On thisterrace they could sit even in the rain, and view the sea. Helen cookedin the cave, but served dinner up on this beautiful terrace. So now shehad a But and a Ben, as the Scotch say. He got a hogshead of oil from thesea-lion; and so the cave was always lighted now, and that was a greatcomfort, and gave them more hours of indoor employment and conversation.The poor bugbear really brightened their existence. Of the same oil,boiled down and mixed with wood-ashes, he made soap, to Helen's greatdelight. The hide of this animal was so thick he could do nothing with itbut cut off pieces to make the soles of shoes, if required. But the sealswere miscellaneous treasures. He contrived with guano and aromatics tocurry their skins; of their bladders he made vile parchment, and of theirentrails gut, cat-gut and twine, beyond compare. He salted two cubs, andlaid up the rest in store, by inclosing large pieces in clay. When thesewere to be used, the clay was just put into hot embers for some hours,then broken, and the meat eaten with all its juices preserved.Helen cooked and washed, and manufactured salt; and collected quite astore of wild cotton, though it grew very sparingly and it cost her hoursto find a few pods. But in hunting for it she found other things--health,for one. After sunset she was generally employed a couple of hours onmatters which occupy the fair in every situation of life. She madeherself a sealskin jacket and pork-pie hat. She made Mr. Hazel a man'scap of sealskin with a point. But her great work was with the cotton,which will be described hereafter.However, for two hours after sunset, no more (they rose at peep of day),her physician allowed her to sit and work; which she did, and oftensmiled, while he sat by and discoursed to her of all the things he hadread, and surprised himself by the strength and activity of his memory.He attributed it partly to the air of the island. Nor were his fingersidle even at night. He had tools to sharpen for the morrow, glass to makeand polish out of a laminated crystal he had found. And then thehurricane had blown away, among many properties, his map; so he had tomake another with similar materials. He completed the map in due course,and gave it to Helen. It was open to the same strictures she had passedon the other. Hazel was no chartographer. Yet this time she had nothingbut praise for it. How was that?To the reader it is now presented, not as a specimen of chartographicart, but as a little curiosity in its way, being a _fac-simile_ of themap John Hazel drew for Helen Rolleston with such out-of-the-waymaterials as that out-of-the-way island afforded.Above all, it will enable the reader to follow our personages in theirlittle excursions past and future, and also to trace the course of amysterious event we have to record.Relieved of other immediate cares, Hazel's mind had time to dwell uponthe problem. Helen had set him; and one fine day a conviction struck himthat he had taken a narrow and puerile view of it, and that, after all,there must be in the nature of things some way to attract ships from adistance. Possessed with this thought, he went up to Telegraph Point,abstracted his mind from all external objects, and fixed it on thisidea--but came down as he went. He descended by some steps he had cutzigzag for Helen's use, and as he put his foot on the fifthstep--whoo--whirr--whiz--came nine ducks, cooling his head, they whizzedso close; and made right for the lagoons."Hum!" thought Hazel; "I never see you ducks fly in any other directionbut that."This speculation rankled in him all night, and he told Helen he shouldreconnoiter at daybreak, but should not take her, as there might besnakes. He made the boat ready at daybreak, and certain gannets,pintadoes, boobies, and noddies, and divers with eyes in their heads likefiery jewels--birds whose greedy maws he had often gratified--chose tofancy he must be going a-fishing, and were on the alert, and rathertroublesome. However, he got adrift, and ran out through North Gate, witha light westerly breeze, followed by a whole fleet of birds. These werejoined in due course by another of his satellites, a young seal he calledTommy, also fond of fishing.The feathered convoy soon tailed off; but Tommy stuck to him for abouteight miles. He ran that distance to have a nearer look at a small islandwhich lay due north of Telegraph Point. He satisfied himself it waslittle more than a very long, large reef, the neighborhood of which oughtto be avoided by ships of burden, and, resolving to set some beacon orother on it ere long, he christened it White Water Island, on account ofthe surf. He came about and headed for the East Bluff.Then Tommy gave him up in disgust; perhaps thought his conductvacillating. Animals all despise that.He soon landed almost under the volcano, and moored his boat not far froma cliff peaked with guano. Exercising due caution this time, he got up tothe lagoons, and found a great many ducks swimming about. He approachedlittle parties to examine their varieties. They all swam out his way;some of them even flew a few yards, and then settled. Not one would lethim come within forty yards. This convinced Hazel the ducks were notnatives of the island, but strangers, who were not much afraid, becausethey had never been molested on this particular island; but stilldistrusted man.While he pondered thus, there was a great noise of wings, and about adozen ducks flew over his head on the rise, and passed westward stillrising till they got into the high currents, and away upon the wings ofthe wind for distant lands.The grand rush of their wings, and the off-hand way in which theyspurned, abandoned and disappeared from an island that held him tight,made Hazel feel very small. His thoughts took the form of satire. "Lordsof the creation, are we? We sink in water; in air we tumble; on earth westumble."These pleasing reflections did not prevent his taking their exact line offlight, and barking a tree to mark it. He was about to leave the placewhen he heard a splashing not far from him, and there was a duck jumpingabout on the water in a strange way. Hazel thought a snake had got holdof her, and ran to her assistance. He took her out of the water and soonfound what was the matter; her bill was open, and a fish's tail wassticking out. Hazel inserted his finger and dragged out a small fishwhich had erected the spines on its back so opportunely as nearly to killits destroyer. The duck recovered enough to quack in a feeble and dubiousmanner. Hazel kept her for Helen, because she was a plain brown duck.With some little reluctance he slightly shortened one wing, and stowedaway his captive in the hold of the boat.He happened to have a great stock of pitch in the boat, so he employed afew hours in writing upon the guano rocks. On one he wrote in hugeletters:  AN ENGLISH LADY WRECKED HERE. HASTE TO HER RESCUE.On another he wrote in small letters:  BEWARE THE REEFS ON THE NORTH SIDE.  LIE OFF FOR SIGNALS.Then he came home and beached the boat, and brought Helen his captive."Why, it is an English duck!" she cried, and was enraptured.By this visit to the lagoons, Hazel gathered that this island was ahalf-way house for migrating birds, especially ducks; and he inferredthat the line those vagrants had taken was the shortest way from thisisland to the nearest land. This was worth knowing, and set his brainworking. He begged Helen to watch for the return of the turtle-doves(they had all left the island just before the rain), and learn, ifpossible, from what point of the compass they arrived.The next expedition was undertaken to please Helen; she wished to examinethe beautiful creeks and caves on the north side, which they had seenfrom a distance when they sailed round the island.They started on foot one delightful day, and walked briskly, for the air,though balmy, was exhilarating. They followed the course of the rivertill they came to the lake that fed it, and was fed itself by hundreds oflittle natural gutters down which the hills discharged the rains. Thiswas new to Helen, though not to Hazel. She produced the map, and told thelake slyly that it was incorrect, a little too big. She took some of thewater in her hand, sprinkled the lake with it, and called it Hazelmere.They bore a little to the right, and proceeded till they found a creekshaped like a wedge, at whose broad end shone an arch of foliage studdedwith flowers, and the sparkling blue water peeped behind. This wastempting, but the descent was rather hazardous at first; great squareblocks of rock one below another, and these rude steps were coated withmosses of rich hue, but wet and slippery; Hazel began to be alarmed forhis companion. However, after one or two difficulties, the fissure openedwider to the sun, and they descended from the slimy rocks into a slopinghot-bed of exotic flowers, and those huge succulent leaves that are theglory of the tropics. The ground was carpeted a yard deep with theirluxuriance, and others, more aspiring, climbed the warm sides of thediverging cliffs, just as creepers go up a wall, lining every crevice asthey rose. In this blessed spot, warmed, but not scorched, by thetropical sun, and fed with trickling waters, was seen what marvels "boonNature" can do. Here our vegetable dwarfs were giants and our flowerswere trees. One lovely giantess of the jasmine tribe, but with flowersshaped like a marigold, and scented like a tube-rose, had a stem as thickas a poplar, and carried its thousand buds and amber-colored flowers upeighty feet of broken rock, and planted on every ledge suckers, thatflowered again and filled the air with perfume. Another tree about halfas high was covered with a cascade of snow-white tulips, each as big as asmall flower-pot, and scented like honeysuckle. An aloe, ten feet high,blossomed in a corner, unheeded among loftier beauties. And at the verymouth of the fissure a huge banana leaned across, and flung out its vastleaves, that seemed translucent gold against the sun; under it shone amonstrous cactus in all her pink and crimson glory, and through the mazeof color streamed the deep blue of the peaceful ocean, laughing, andcatching sunbeams.Helen leaned against the cliff and quivered with delight, and that deepsense of flowers that belongs to your true woman.Hazel feared she was ill."Ill?" said she. "Who could be ill here? It is heaven upon earth. Oh, youdears! Oh, you loves! And they all seemed growing on the sea, andfloating in the sun.""And it is only one of a dozen such," said Hazel. "If you would like toinspect them at your leisure, I'll just run to Palm-tree Point; for mysignal is all askew. I saw that as we came along."Helen assented readily, and he ran off, but left her the provisions. Shewas not to wait dinner for him.Helen examined two or three of the flowery fissures, and found freshbeauties in each, and also some English leaves, that gave her pleasure ofanother kind; and, after she had reveled in the flowers, she examined theshore, and soon discovered that the rocks which abounded here (thoughthere were also large patches of clear sand) were nearly all pure coral,in great variety. Red coral was abundant; and even the pink coral, towhich fashion was just then giving a fictitious value, was there by theton. This interested her, and so did some beautiful shells that laysparkling. The time passed swiftly; and she was still busy in herresearches, when suddenly it darkened a little, and, looking back, shesaw a white vapor stealing over the cliff, and curling down.Upon this she thought it prudent to return to the place where Hazel hadleft her; the more so as it was near sunset.The vapor descended and spread and covered sea and land. Then the sunset; and it was darkness visible. Coming from the south, the sea-fretcaught Hazel sooner and in a less favorable situation. Returning from thepalm-tree, he had taken the shortest cut through a small jungle, and beenso impeded by the scrub, that, when he got clear, the fog was upon him.Between that and the river he lost his way several times, and did not hitthe river till near midnight. He followed the river to the lake, andcoasted the lake, and then groped his way toward the creek.But, after a while, every step he took was fraught with danger; and thenight was far advanced when he at last hit off the creek, as he thought.He halloed; but there was no reply; halloed again, and, to his joy, hervoice replied; but at a distance.He had come to the wrong creek. She was farther westward. He groped hisway westward, and came to another creek. He haloed to her, and sheanswered him. But to attempt the descent would have been mere suicide.She felt that herself, and almost ordered him to stay where he was."Why, we can talk all the same," said she; "and it is not for long."It was a curious position, and one typical of the relation between them.So near together, yet the barrier so strong."I am afraid you must be very cold," said he."Oh, no; I have my seal-skin jacket on; and it is so sheltered here. Iwish you were as well off.""You are not afraid to be alone down there?""I am not alone when your voice is near me. Now don't you fidgetyourself, dear friend. I like these little excitements. I have told youso before. Listen. How calm and silent it all is; the place; the night!The mind seems to fill with great ideas, and to feel its immortality."She spoke with solemnity, and he heard in silence.Indeed it was a reverend time and place. The sea, whose loud andpenetrating tongue had, in some former age, created the gully where theyboth sat apart, had of late years receded and kissed the sands gentlythat calm night; so gently, that its long, low murmur seemed but the echoof tranquillity.The voices of that pair sounded supernatural, one speaking up, and theother down, the speakers quite invisible."Mr. Hazel," said Helen, in a low, earnest voice; "they say that nightgives wisdom even to the wise; think now, and tell me your true thoughts.Has the foot of man ever trod upon this island before?"There was a silence due to a question so grave, and put with solemnity,at a solemn time, in a solemn place.At last Hazel's thoughtful voice came down. "The world is very, very,very old. So old, that the words 'Ancient History' are a falsehood, andMoses wrote but as yesterday. And man is a very old animal upon this old,old planet; and has been everywhere. I cannot doubt he has been here."Her voice went up. "But have you seen any signs?"His voice came down. "I have not looked for them. The bones and theweapons of primeval man are all below earth's surface at this time ofday."There was a dead silence. Then Helen's voice went up again. "But inmodern times? Has no man landed here from far-off places, since shipswere built?"The voice came sadly down. "I do not know."The voice went up. "But think!"The voice came down. "What calamity can be new in a world so old as this?Everything we can do, and suffer, others of our race have done, andsuffered."The voice went up. "Hush! there's something moving on the sand."CHAPTER XXXV.HAZEL waited and listened. So did Helen, and her breath came fast; for inthe stilly night she heard light but mysterious sounds. Something wasmoving on the sand very slowly and softly, but nearer and nearer. Herheart began to leap. She put out her hand instinctively to clutch Mr.Hazel; but he was too far off. She had the presence of mind and theself-denial to disguise her fears; for she knew he would come headlong toher assistance.She said in a quavering whisper, "I'm not frightened; only v--veryc--curious."And now she became conscious that not only one but several things werecreeping about.Presently the creeping ceased, and was followed by a louder and moremysterious noise. In that silent night it sounded like raking anddigging. Three or four mysterious visitants seemed to be making graves.This was too much; especially coming as it did after talk about theprimeval dead. Her desire to scream was so strong, and she was so afraidHazel would break his neck, if she relieved her mind in that way, thatshe actually took her handkerchief and bit it hard.But this situation was cut short by a beneficent luminary. The sun rosewith a magnificent bound--it was his way in that latitude--and everythingunpleasant winced that moment; the fog shivered in its turn, and appearedto open in furrows as great javelins of golden light shot through it fromthe swiftly rising orb.Soon those golden darts increased to streams of portable fire, that burstthe fog and illumined the wet sands. And Helen burst out laughing likechanticleer, for this first break of day revealed the sextons that hadscared her--three ponderous turtles, crawling, slow and clumsy, back tosea. Hazel joined her, and they soon found what these evil spirits of theisland had been at, poor wretches. They had each buried a dozen eggs inthe sand; one dozen of which were very soon set boiling. At first,indeed, Helen objected that they had no shells, but Hazel told her shemight as well complain of a rose without a thorn. He assured her turtles'eggs were a known delicacy, and very superior to birds' eggs; and so shefound them. They were eaten with the keenest relish."And now," said Helen, "for my discoveries. First, here are my Englishleaves, only bigger. I found them on a large tree.""English leaves!" cried Hazel, with rapture. "Why, it is the caoutchouc!""Oh, dear," said Helen, in a disappointed tone; "I took it for theIndia-rubber free.""It is the India-rubber tree; and I have been hunting for it all over theisland in vain, and using wretchedly inferior gums for want of it.""I'm so glad," said Helen. "And now I have something else to show you.Something that curdled my blood; but I dare say I was very foolish." Shethen took him half across the sand and pointed out to him a number ofstones dotted over the sand in a sort of oval. These stones, streakedwith sea grass, and incrusted with small shells, were not at equaldistances, but yet, allowing for gaps, they formed a decided figure.Their outline resembled a great fish, wanting the tail."Can this be chance?" asked Helen; "oh, if it should be what I fear, andthat is--savages!"Hazel considered it attentively a long time. "Too far at sea for livingsavages," said he. "And yet it cannot be chance. What on earth is it? Itlooks Druidical. But how can that be? The island was smaller when thesewere placed here than it is now." He went nearer and examined one of thestones; then he scraped away the sand from its base, and found it was notshaped like a stone, but more like a whale's rib. He became excited; wenton his knees, and tore the sand up with his hands. Then he rose upagitated, and traced the outline again. "Great Heaven!" said he, "why, itis a ship.""A ship!""Ay," said he, standing in the middle of it; "here, beneath our feet,lies man; with his work, and his treasures. This carcass has been herefor many a long year; not so very long, either; she is too big for thesixteenth century, and yet she must have been sunk when the island wassmaller. I take it to be a Spanish or Portuguese ship; probably one ofthose treasure-ships our commodores, and chartered pirates, and theAmerican buccaneers, used to chase about these seas. Here lie her bonesand the bones of her crew. Your question was soon answered. All that wecan say has been said; can do has been done; can suffer has beensuffered."They were silent, and the sunk ship's bones moved them strangely. Intheir deep isolation from the human race, even the presence of the deadbrought humanity somehow nearer to them.They walked thoughtfully away, and made across the sands for TelegraphPoint.Before they got home, Helen suggested that perhaps, if he were to dig inthe ship, he might find something useful.He shook his head: "Impossible! The iron has all melted away like sugarlong before this. Nothing can have survived but gold and silver, and theyare not worth picking up, much less digging for; my time is too precious.No, you have found two buried treasures to-day--turtles' eggs, and aship, freighted, as I think, with what men call the precious metals.Well, the eggs are gold, and the gold is a drug--there it will lie forme."Both discoveries bore fruits. The ship: Hazel made a vow that never againshould any poor ship lay her ribs on this island for want of warning. Hebuoyed the reefs. He ran out to White Water Island, and wrote an earnestwarning on the black reef, and, this time, he wrote with white on black.He wrote a similar warning, with black on white, at the western extremityof Godsend Island.The eggs: Hazel watched for the turtles at daybreak; turned one now andthen; and fed Helen on the meat or its eggs, morn, noon and night.For some time she had been advancing in health and strength. But, whenthe rains declined considerably, and she was all day in the air, she gotthe full benefit of the wonderful climate, and her health, appetite andmuscular vigor became truly astonishing; especially under what Hazelcalled the turtle cure; though, indeed, she was cured before. She atethree good meals a day, and needed them; for she was up with the sun, andher hands and feet never idle till he set.Four months on the island had done this. But four months had not shownthose straining eyes the white speck on the horizon; the sail, so lookedand longed for.Hazel often walked the island by himself; not to explore, for he knew theplace well by this time, but he went his rounds to see that all hissignals were in working order.He went to Mount Lookout one day with this view. It was about an hourbefore noon. Long before he got to the mountain he had scanned thehorizon carefully, as a matter of course; but not a speck. So, when hegot there, he did not look seaward, but just saw that his flagstaff wasall right and was about to turn away and go home, when he happened toglance at the water; and there, underneath him, he saw--a ship; standingtoward the island.CHAPTER XXXVI.HE started, and rubbed his eyes, and looked again. It was no delusion.Things never did come as they are expected to come. There was still nodoubtful speck on the horizon; but within eight miles of the island--andin this lovely air that looked nearly close--was a ship, under canvas.She bore S. E. from Mount Lookout, and S. S. E. from the East Bluff ofthe island, toward which her course was apparenty directed. She had afair wind, but was not going fast; being heavily laden, and under nopress of sail. A keen thrill went through him; and his mind was a whirl.He ran home with the great news.But, even as he ran, a cold, sickly feeling crawled over him."That ship parts her and me."He resisted the feeling as a thing too monstrous and selfish, andresisted it so fiercely, that, when he got to the slopes and saw Helenbusy at her work, he waved his hat and hurrahed again and again, andseemed almost mad with triumph.Helen stood transfixed, she had never seen him in such a state."Good news!" he cried; "great news! A ship in sight! You are rescued!"Her heart leaped into her mouth."A ship!" she screamed. "Where? Where?"He came up to her, panting."Close under the island. Hid by the bluff; but you will see her in halfan hour. God be praised! Get everything ready to go. Hurrah! This is ourlast day on the island."The words were brave, and loud, and boisterous, but the face was pale anddrawn, and Helen saw it, and, though she bustled and got ready to leave,the tears were in her eyes. But the event was too great to be resisted. Awild excitement grew on them both. They ran about like persons crazed,and took things up, and laid them down again, scarcely knowing what theywere doing. But presently they were sobered a little, for the ship didnot appear. They ran across the sands, where they could see the bluff;she ought to have passed that half an hour ago.Hazel thought she must have anchored.Helen looked at him steadily."Dear friend," said she, "are you sure there is a ship at all? Are younot under a delusion? This island fills the mind with fancies. One day Ithought I saw a ship sailing in the sky. Ah!" She uttered a faint scream,for while she was speaking the bowsprit and jib of a vessel glided pastthe bluff so closely they seemed to scrape it, and a ship emergedgrandly, and glided along the cliff."Are they mad," cried Hazel, "to hug the shore like that? Ah! they haveseen my warning."And it appeared so, for the ship just then came up in the wind severalpoints, and left the bluff dead astern.She sailed a little way on that course, and then paid off again, andseemed inclined to range along the coast. But presently she was up in thewind again, and made a greater offing. She was sailed in a strange,vacillating way; but Hazel ascribed this to her people's fear of thereefs he had indicated to all comers. The better to watch her maneuvers,and signal her if necessary, they both went up to Telegraph Point. Theycould not go out to her, being low water. Seen from this height, theworking of this vessel was unaccountable. She was to and off the wind asoften as if she was drunk herself, or commanded by a drunken skipper.However, she was kept well clear of the home reefs, and made a goodoffing, and so at last she opened the bay heading N. W., and distant fourmiles, or thereabouts. Now was the time to drop her anchor. So Hazelworked the telegraph to draw her attention, and waved his hat and hand toher. But the ship sailed on. She yawed immensely, but she kept hercourse; and, when she had gone a mile or two more, the sickening truthforced itself at last upon those eager watchers. She had decided not totouch at the island. In vain their joyful signals. In vain the telegraph.In vain that cry for help upon the eastern cliff; it had saved her, butnot pleaded for them. The monsters saw them on the height--their hope,their joy--saw and abandoned them.They looked at one another with dilating eyes, to read in a human facewhether such a deed as this could really be done by man upon his fellow.They uttered wild cries to the receding vessel.Vain, vain, all was in vain.Then they sat down stupefied, but still glaring at the ship, and each atthe same moment held out a hand to the other, and they sat hand in hand;all the world to each other just then, for there was the world in sightabandoning them in cold blood."Be calm, dear friend," said Helen, patiently. "Oh, my poor father!" Andher other hand threw her apron over her head, and then came a burst ofanguish that no words could utter.At this Hazel started to his feet in fury. "Now may the God that made seaand land judge between those miscreants there and you!""Be patient," said Helen, sobbing. "Oh, be patient.""No! I will not be patient," roared Hazel. "Judge thou her cause, oh,God; each of these tears against a reptile's soul."And so he stood glaring, and his hair blowing wildly to the breeze; whileshe sighed patiently at his knee.Presently he began to watch the vessel with a grim and bitter eye. Anonhe burst out suddenly, "Aha! that is right. Well steered. Don't cry,sweet one; our cause is heard. Are they blind? Are they drunk? Are theysick? I see nobody on deck! Perhaps I have been too-- God forgive me, theship's ashore!"CHAPTER XXXVII.HELEN looked up; and there was the ship fast, and on her side. She was onthe White Water Reef. Not upon the black rocks themselves, but on a partof them that was under water.Hazel ran down to the beach; and there Helen found him greatly agitated.All his anger was gone; he had but one thought now--to go out to herassistance. But it still wanted an hour to high water, and it was blowingsmartly, and there was nearly always a surf upon that reef. What if thevessel should break up, and lives be lost?He paced the sands like a wild beast in its cage, in an agony of pity,remorse, and burning impatience. His feelings became intolerable; he sethis back to the boat, and with herculean strength forced it down a littleway to meet the tide. He got logs and put them down for rollers. Hestrove, he strained, he struggled, till his face and hands were purple.And at last he met the flowing tide, and in a moment jumped into theboat, and pushed off. Helen begged with sparkling eyes to be allowed toaccompany him."What, to a ship smitten with scurvy, or Heaven knows what? Certainlynot. Besides, you would be wet through; it is blowing rather fresh, and Ishall carry on. Pray for the poor souls I go to help; and for me, whohave sinned in my anger."He hoisted his sail, and ran out. Helen stood on the bank, and watchedhim with tender admiration. How good and brave he was! And he could gointo a passion, too, when she was wronged, or when he thought she was.Well! she admired him none the less for that. She watched him at firstwith admiration, but soon with anxiety; for he had no sooner passed NorthGate, than the cutter, having both sails set, though reefed, lay downvery much, and her hull kept disappearing. Helen felt anxious, and wouldhave been downright frightened, but for her confidence in his prowess.By and by only her staggering sails were visible; and the sun set ere shereached the creek. The wind declined with the sun, and Helen made twogreat fires, and prepared food for the sufferers; for she made sure Hazelwould bring them off in a few hours more. She promised herself thehappiness of relieving the distressed. But to her infinite surprise shefound herself almost regretting that the island was likely to be peopledwith strangers. No matter, she should sit up for them all night and bevery kind to them, poor things; though they had not been very kind toher.About midnight, the wind shifted to the northwest, and blew hard.Helen ran down to the shore, and looked seaward. This was a fair wind forHazel's return; and she began to expect him every hour. But no; hedelayed unaccountably. And the worst of it was, it began to blow a gale;and this wind sent the sea rolling into the bay in a manner that alarmedher seriously.The night wore on; no signs of the boat; and now there was a heavy galeoutside, and a great sea rolling in, brown and foaming.Day broke, and showed the sea for a mile or two; the rest was hidden bydriving rain.Helen kneeled on the shore and prayed for him.Dire misgivings oppressed her. And soon these were heightened to terror;for the sea began to disgorge things of a kind that had never come ashorebefore. A great ship's mast came tossing. Huge as it was, the waveshandled it like a toy.Then came a barrel; then a broken spar. These were but the forerunners ofmore fearful havoc.The sea became strewed and literally blackened with fragments; partwreck, part cargo, of a broken vessel.But what was all this compared with the horror that followed?A black object caught her eye; driven in upon the crest of a wave.She looked, with her hair flying straight back, and her eyes almoststarting from her head.It was a boat, bottom up; driven on, and tossed like a cork.It came nearer, nearer, nearer.She dashed into the water with a wild scream, but a wave beat herbackward on the sand, and, as she rose, an enormous roller lifted theboat upright into the air, and, breaking, dashed it keel downwards on thebeach at her side--empty!CHAPTER XXXVIII.HELEN uttered a shriek of agony, and her knees smote together, and shewould have swooned on the spot but for the wind and the spray that beatagainst her.To the fearful stun succeeded the wildest distress. She ran to and frolike some wild animal bereaved; she kept wringing her hands and utteringcries of pity and despair, and went back to the boat a hundred times; itheld her by a spell.It was long before she could think connectedly, and, even then, it wasnot of herself, nor of her lonely state, but only, Why did not she diewith him? Why did she not die instead of him?He had been all the world to her; and now she knew it. Oh, what a friend,what a champion, what a lover, these cruel waves had destroyed!The morning broke, and still she hovered and hovered about the fatalboat, with great horror-stricken eyes, and hair flying to the breeze; andnot a tear. If she could only have smoothed his last moments, have spokenone word into his dying ear! But no! Her poor hero had died in going tosave others; died thinking her as cold as the waters that had destroyedhim.Dead or alive he was all the world to her now. She went, wailingpiteously, and imploring the waves to give her at least his dead body tospeak to and mourn over. But the sea denied her even that dismalconsolation.The next tide brought in a few more fragments of the wreck, but no corpsefloated ashore.Then, at last, as the waves once more retired, leaving, this time, onlypetty fragments of wreck on the beach, she lifted up her voice, andalmost wept her heart out of her body.Such tears as these are seldom without effect on the mind; and Helen nowbegan to rebel, though faintly, against despair. She had been quitecrushed, at first, under the material evidence--the boat driven empty bythe very wind and waves that had done the cruel deed. But the heart isaverse to believe calamity and especially bereavement; and very ingeniousin arguing against that bitterest of all woes. So she now sat down andbrooded, and her mind fastened with pathetic ingenuity on everycircumstance that could bear a favorable construction. The mast had notbeen broken; how, then, had it been lost? The body had not come ashore.He had had time to get to the wreck before the gale from the north cameon at all. And why should a fair wind, though powerful, upset the boat?On these slender things she began to build a superstructure of hope; butsoon her heart interrupted the reasoning. "What would _he_ do in myplace? would he sit guessing while hope had a hair to hang by?" Thatthought struck her like a spur. And in a moment she bounded into action,erect, her lips fixed, and her eye on fire, though her cheek was verypale. She went swiftly to Hazel's store and searched it; there she foundthe jib-sail, a boat-hook, some rope, and one little oar, that Hazel wasmaking for her, and had not quite completed. The sight of this, his lastwork, overpowered her again; and she sat down and took it on her knees,and kissed it and cried over it. And these tears weakened her for a time.She felt it, and had the resolution to leave the oar behind. A single oarwas of no use to row with. She rigged the boat-hook as a mast; andfastened the sail to it; and, with this poor equipment, she actuallyresolved to put out to sea.The wind still blew smartly, and there was no blue sky visible.And now she remembered she had eaten nothing; that would not do. Herstrength might fail her. She made ready a meal, and ate it almostfiercely, and by a pure effort of resolution; as she was doing all therest.By this time it was nearly high tide. She watched the water creeping up.Will it float the boat? It rises over the keel two inches, three inches.Five inches water! Now she pushes with all her strength. No; the boat haswater in it she had forgotten to bale out. She strained every nerve, butcould not move it. She stopped to take breath, and husband her strength.But, when she renewed her efforts, the five inches were four, and she hadthe misery of seeing the water crawl away by degrees, and leave the boathigh and dry.She sighed, heart-broken, awhile; then went home and prayed.When she had prayed a long time for strength and wisdom, she lay down foran hour, and tried to sleep, but failed. Then she prepared for a moreserious struggle with the many difficulties she had to encounter. Now shethanked God more than ever for the health and rare strength she hadacquired in this island; without them she could have done nothing now.She got a clay platter and baled the vessel nearly dry. She left a littlewater for ballast. She fortified herself with food, and put provisionsand water on board the boat. In imitation of Hazel she went and got tworound logs, and as soon as the tide crawled up to four inches, she liftedthe bow a little, and got a roller under. Then she went to the boat'sstern, set her teeth, and pushed with a rush of excitement that gave heralmost a man's strength.The stubborn boat seemed elastic, and all but moved. Then instinct taughther where her true strength lay. She got to the stern of the boat, and,setting the small of her back under the projecting gunwale, she gatheredherself, together and gave a superb heave that moved the boat a foot. Shefollowed it up, and heaved again with like effect. Then, with a cry ofjoy, she ran and put down another roller forward. The boat was now on tworollers. One more magnificent heave with all her zeal, and strength, andyouth, and the boat glided forward. She turned and rushed at it as itwent, and the water deepening, and a gust catching the sail, it went outto sea, and she had only just time to throw herself across the gunwale,panting. She was afloat. The wind was S.W., and, before she knew whereshe was, the boat headed toward the home reefs, and slipped through thewater pretty fast considering how small a sail she carried. She ran tothe helm. Alas! the rudder was broken off above the water-line. The helmwas a mockery, and the boat running for the reefs. She slacked the sheet,and the boat lost her way, and began to drift with the tide, whichluckily had not yet turned. It carried her inshore.Helen cast her eyes around her for an expedient, and she unshipped one ofthe transoms, and by trailing it over the side, and alternately slackingand hauling the sheet, she contrived to make the boat crawl like a wingedbird through the western passage. After that it soon got becalmed underthe cliff, and drifted into two feet water.Instantly she tied a rope to the mast, got out into the water, and tookthe rope ashore. She tied it round a heavy barrel she found there, andset the barrel up, and heaped stones round it and on it, which,unfortunately, was a long job, though she worked with feverish haste;then she went round the point, sometimes wet and sometimes dry, for thelittle oar she had left behind because it broke her heart to look at.Away with such weakness now! With that oar, his last work, she mightsteer if she could not row. She got it. She came back to the boat torecommence her voyage.She found the boat all safe, but in six inches of water, and the tidegoing out. So ended her voyage; four hundred yards at most, and then towait another twelve hours for the tide.It was too cruel; and every hour so precious. For, even if Hazel wasalive, he would die of cold and hunger ere she could get to him. Shecried like any woman. She persisted like a man.She made several trips, and put away things in the boat that couldpossibly be of use--abundant provision, and a keg of water; Hazel'swooden spade to paddle or steer with; his basket of tools, etc. Then shesnatched some sleep; but it was broken by sad and terrible dreams. Thenshe waited in an agony of impatience for high water.We are not always the best judges of what is good for us. Probably thesedelays saved her own life. She went out at last under far more favorablecircumstances--a light westerly breeze, and no reefs to pass through. Shewas, however, severely incommoded with a ground-swell.At first she steered with the spade as well as she could; but she foundthis was not sufficient. The current ran westerly, and she was driftingout of her course. Then she remembered Hazel's lessons, and made shift tofasten the spade to the helm, and then lashed the helm. Even this did notquite do; so she took her little oar, kissed it, cried over it a little,and then pulled manfully with it so as to keep the true course. It was amuggy day, neither wet nor dry. White Water Island was not in sight fromGodsend Island; but, as soon as she lost the latter, the former becamevisible--an ugly, grinning reef, with an eternal surf on the south andwestern sides.Often she left off rowing, and turned to look at it. It was all black andblank, except the white and fatal surf.When she was about four miles from the nearest part of the reef, therewas a rush and bubble in the water, and a great shark came after theboat. Helen screamed, and turned very cold. She dreaded the monster, notfor what he could do now, but for what he might have done. He seemed toknow the boat, he swam so vigilantly behind it. Was he there when theboat upset with Hazel in it? Was it in his greedy maw the remains of herbest friend must be sought? Her lips opened, but no sound. She shudderedand hid her face at this awful thought.The shark followed steadily.She got to the reef, but did not hit it off as she intended. She ranunder its lee, lowered the little sail, and steered the boat into a nickwhere the shark could hardly follow her.But he moved to and fro like a sentinel, while she landed in trepidationand secured the boat to the branches of a white coral rock.She found the place much larger than it looked from Telegraph Point. Itwas an archipelago of coral reef incrusted here and there with shells.She could not see all over it, where she was, so she made for what seemedthe highest part, a bleak, sea-weedy mound, with some sandy hillocksabout it. She went up to this, and looked eagerly all round.Not a soul.She called as loud as her sinking heart would let her.Not a sound.She felt very sick, and sat down upon the mound.When she had yielded awhile to the weakness of her sex, she got up andwas her father's daughter again. She set to work to examine every foot ofthe reef.It was no easy task. The rocks were rugged and sharp in places, slipperyin others; often she had to go about, and once she fell and hurt herpretty hands and made them bleed; she never looked at them, nor heeded,but got up and sighed at the interruption; then patiently persisted. Ittook her two hours to examine thus, in detail, one half the island. Butat last she discovered something. She saw at the eastern side of the reefa wooden figure of a woman, and, making her way to it, found thefigurehead and a piece of the bow of the ship, with a sail on it, and ayard on that. This fragment was wedged into an angle of the reef, and theseaward edge of it shattered in a way that struck terror to Helen, for itshowed her how omnipotent the sea had been. On the reef itself she founda cask with its head stove in, also a little keg and two wooden chests orcases. But what was all this to her?She sat down again, for her knees failed her. Presently there was a sortof moan near her, and a seal splashed into the water and dived out of hersight. She put her hands on her heart, and bowed her head down, utterlydesolate. She sat thus for a long time indeed, until she was interruptedby a most unexpected visitor. Something came sniffing up to her and put acold nose to her hand. She started violently, and both her hands were inthe air in a moment.It was a dog, a pointer. He whimpered and tried to gambol, but could notmanage it; he was too weak. However, he contrived to let her see, withthe wagging of his tail and a certain contemporaneous twist of hisemaciated body, that she was welcome. But, having performed thisceremony, he trotted feebly away, leaving her very much startled, and notknowing what to think; indeed, this incident set her trembling all over.A dog saved from the wreck! Then why not a man? And why not that life?Oh, thought she, would God save that creature, and not pity my poor angeland me?She got up animated with hope, and recommenced her researches. She nowkept at the outward edge of the island, and so went all round till shereached her boat again. The shark was swimming to and fro, waiting forher with horrible pertinacity. She tried to eat a mouthful, but, thoughshe was faint, she could not eat. She drank a mouthful of water, and thenwent to search the very small portion that remained of the reef, and totake the poor dog home with her, because he she had lost was so good toanimals. Only his example is left me, she said; and with that cameanother burst of sorrow. But she got up and did the rest of her work,crying as she went. After some severe traveling she got near thenortheast limit, and in a sort of gully she saw the dog, quietly seatedhigh on his tail. She called him; but he never moved. So then she went tohim, and, when she got near him, she saw why he would not come. He waswatching. Close by him lay the form of a man nearly covered withsea-weed. The feet were visible, and so was the face, the latter deadlypale. It was he. In a moment she was by him, and leaning over him withboth hands quivering. Was he dead? No; his eyes were closed; he was fastasleep.Her hands flew to his face to feel him alive, and then grasped both hishands and drew them up toward her panting bosom; and the tears of joystreamed from her eyes as she sobbed and murmured over him, she knew notwhat. At that he awoke and stared at her. He uttered a loud ejaculationof joy and wonder, then, taking it all in, burst into tears himself andfell to kissing her hands and blessing her.The poor soul had almost given himself up for lost. And to be saved, allin a moment, and by her!They could neither of them speak, but only mingled tears of joy andgratitude.Hazel recovered himself first; and, rising somewhat stiffly, lent her hisarm. Her father's spirit went out of her in the moment of victory, andshe was all woman--sweet, loving, clinging woman. She got hold of hishand as well as his arm, and clutched it so tight her little grasp seemedvelvet and steel."Let me feel you," said she. "But no words! no words!"He supported his preserver tenderly to the boat, then, hoisting the sail,he fetched the east side in two tacks, shipped the sail and yard, andalso the cask, keg and boxes. He then put a great quantity of looseoysters on board, each as large as a plate. She looked at him withamazement."What," said she, when he had quite loaded the boat, "only just out ofthe jaws of death, and yet you can trouble your head about oysters andthings.""Wait till you see what I shall do with them," said he. "These are pearloysters. I gathered them for you, when I had little hope I should eversee you again to give them you."This was an unlucky speech. The act, that seemed so small and natural athing to him, the woman's heart measured more correctly. Something rosein her throat; she tried to laugh instead of crying, and so she did both,and went into a violent fit of hysterics that showed how thoroughly hernature had been stirred to its depths. She quite frightened Hazel; and,indeed, the strength of an excited woman's weakness is sometimes alarmingto manly natures.He did all he could to soothe her; without much success. As soon as shewas better he set sail, thinking home was the best place for her. Sheleaned back exhausted, and, after a while, seemed to be asleep. We don'tbelieve she was, but Hazel did; and sat, cold and aching in body, butwarm at heart, worshiping her with all his eyes.At last they got ashore; and he sat by her fire and told her all, whileshe cooked his supper and warmed clothes at the fire for him."The ship," said he, "was a Dutch vessel, bound from Batavia to Callao,that had probably gone on her beam ends, for she was full of water. Hercrew had abandoned her; I think they underrated the buoyancy of the shipand cargo. They left the poor dog on board. Her helm was lashed a-weathera couple of turns, but why that was done I cannot tell for the life ofme. I boarded her; unshipped my mast, and moored the boat to the ship;fed the poor dog; rummaged in the hold, and contrived to hoist up a smallcask of salted beef, and a keg of rum, and some cases of grain and seeds.I managed to slide these on to the reef by means of the mast and oarlashed together. But a roller ground the wreck farther on to the reef,and the sudden snap broke the rope, as I suppose, and the boat went tosea. I never knew the misfortune till I saw her adrift. I could have gotover that by making a raft; but the gale from the north brought such asea on us. I saw she must break up, so I got ashore how I could. Ah, Ilittle thought to see your face again, still less that I should owe mylife to you.""Spare me," said Helen faintly."What, must not I thank you even for my life?""No. _The account is far from even yet."_"You are no arithmetician to say so. What astonishes me most is, that youhave never once scolded me for all the trouble and anxiety--""I am too happy to see you sitting there, to scold you. But still I doask you to leave the sea alone after this. The treacherous monster! Oh,think what you and I have suffered on it."She seemed quite worn out. He saw that, and retired for the night,casting one more wistful glance on her. But at that moment she was afraidto look at him. Her heart was welling over with tenderness for the dearfriend whose life she had saved.Next morning Hazel rose at daybreak as usual, but found himself stiff inthe joints and with a pain in his back. The mat that hung at the openingof Helen's cave was not removed as usual. She was on her bed with aviolent headache.Hazel fed Ponto, and corrected him. He was at present a civilized dog; sohe made a weak rush at the boobies and noddies directly.He also smelled Tommy inquisitively, to learn was he an eatable. Tommysomehow divined the end of this sinister curiosity, and showed his teeth.Then Hazel got a rope, and tied one end round his own waist, and oneround Ponto's neck, and, at every outbreak of civilization, jerked himsharply on to his back. The effect of this discipline was rapid; Pontosoon found that he must not make war on the inhabitants of the island. Hewas a docile animal, and in a very short time consented to make one of"the happy family," as Hazel called the miscellaneous crew that besethim.Helen and Hazel did not meet till past noon; and when they did meet itwas plain she had been thinking a great deal, for her greeting was so shyand restrained as to appear cold and distant to Hazel. He thought tohimself, I was too happy yesterday, and she too kind. Of course it couldnot last.This change in her seemed to grow, rather than diminish. She carried itso far as to go and almost hide during the working hours. She made off tothe jungle, and spent an unreasonable time there. She professed to becollecting cotton, and it must be admitted she brought a good deal homewith her. But Hazel could not accept cotton as the only motive for thissudden separation.He lost the light of her face till the evening. Then matters took anotherturn; she was too polite. Ceremony and courtesy appeared to be graduallyencroaching upon tender friendship and familiarity. Yet, now and then,her soft hazel eyes seemed to turn on him in silence, and say, forgive meall this. Then, at those sweet looks, love and forgiveness poured out ofhis eyes. And then hers sought the ground. And this was generallyfollowed by a certain mixture of stiffness, timidity and formality toosubtle to describe.The much-enduring man began to lose patience."This is caprice," said he. "Cruel caprice."Our female readers will probably take a deeper view of it than that.Whatever it was, another change was at hand. Since he was so exposed tothe weather on the reef, Hazel had never been free from pain; but he haddone his best to work it off. He had collected all the valuables from thewreck, made a new mast, set up a rude capstan to draw the boat ashore,and cut a little dock for her at low water, and clayed it in the fullheat of the sun; and, having accomplished this drudgery, he got at lastto his labor of love; he opened a quantity of pearl oysters, fed Tommyand the duck with them, and began the great work of lining the cavernwith them. The said cavern was somewhat shell-shaped, and his idea was tomake it out of a gloomy cavern into a vast shell, lined entirely, roofand sides, with glorious, sweet, prismatic mother-of-pearl, fresh fromocean. Well, one morning, while Helen was in the jungle, he made a cementof guano, sand, clay and water, nipped some shells to a shape with thepincers, and cemented them neatly, like mosaic almost; but in the middleof his work he was cut down by the disorder he had combated so stoutly.He fairly gave in, and sat down groaning with pain. And in this stateHelen found him."Oh, what is the matter?" said she.He told her the truth, and said he had violent pains in the back andhead. She did not say much, but she turned pale. She bustled and lighteda great fire, and made him lie down by it. She propped his head up; sheset water on to boil for him, and would not let him move for anything;and all the time her features were brimful of the loveliest concern. Hecould not help thinking how much better it was to be ill and in pain, andhave her so kind, than to be well, and see her cold and distant. Towardevening he got better, or rather he mistook an intermission for cure, andretired to his boat; but she made him take her rug with him; and, when hewas gone, she could not sleep for anxiety; and it cut her to the heart tothink how poorly he was lodged compared with her.Of all the changes fate could bring, this she had never dreamed of, thatshe should be so robust and he should be sick and in pain.She passed an uneasy, restless night, and long before morning she awokefor the sixth or seventh time, and she awoke with a misgiving in hermind, and some sound ringing in her ears. She listened and heard nothing;but in a few moments it began again.It was Hazel talking--talking in a manner so fast, so strange, so loud,that it made her blood run cold. It was the voice of Hazel, but not hismind.She drew near, and, to her dismay, found him fever-stricken, and pouringout words with little sequence. She came close to him and tried to soothehim, but he answered her quite at random, and went on flinging out thestrangest things in stranger order. She trembled and waited for a lull,hoping then to soothe him with soft words and tones of tender pity._"Dens and caves!"_ he roared, answering an imaginary detractor. "Well,never mind, love shall make that hole in the rock a palace for a queen;for _a_ queen? For _the_ queen." Here he suddenly changed characters andfancied he was interpreting the discourse of another. "He means the Queenof the Fairies," said he, patronizingly. Then, resuming his own characterwith loud defiance, "I say her chamber shall outshine the glories of theAlhambra, as far as the lilies outshone the artificial glories of KingSolomon. Oh, mighty Nature, let others rely on the painter, thegold-beater, the carver of marble, come you and help me adorn the templeof my beloved. Amen."(The poor soul thought, by the sound of his own words, it must be aprayer he uttered.)And now Helen, with streaming eyes, tried to put in a word, but hestopped her with a wild Hush! and went off into a series of mysteriouswhisperings. "Make no noise, please, or we shall frighten her.There--that is her window--no noise, please! I've watched and waited fourhours, just to see her sweet, darling shadow on the blinds, and shall Ilose it for your small talk? all paradoxes and platitudes! excuse myplain speaking--Hush! here it comes--her shadow--hush!--how my heartbeats. It is gone. So now" (speaking out), "good-night, base world! Doyou hear? you company of liars, thieves and traitors, called the world,go and sleep if you can. I _shall_ sleep, because my conscience is clear._False accusations!_ Who can help them? They are the act of others. Readof Job, and Paul, and Joan of Arc. No, no, no, no; I didn't say read 'em_out_ with those stentorian lungs. I must be allowed a _little_ sleep, aman that wastes the midnight oil, yet brushes the early dew. Good-night."He turned round and slept for several hours as he supposed; but inreality he was silent for just three seconds. "Well," said he, "and is agardener a man to be looked down upon by upstarts? When Adam delved andEve span, where was then the gentleman? Why, where the spade was. Yet Iwent through the Herald's College, and not one of our mushroomaristocracy ('bloated' I object to; they don't eat half as much as theirfootmen) had a spade for a crest. There's nothing ancient west of theCaspian. Well, all the better. For there's no fool like an old fool. Aspade's a spade for a' that an a' that, an a' that--an a' that--an a'that. Hallo! Stop that man; he's gone off on his cork leg, of a' that ana' that--and it is my wish to be quiet. Allow me respectfully toobserve," said he, striking off suddenly into an air of vast politeness,"that man requires change. I've done a jolly good day's work with thespade for this old buffer, and now the intellect claims its turn. Themind retires above the noisy world to its Acropolis, and there discussesthe great problem of the day; the Insular Enigma. To be or not to be,that is the question, I believe. No it is not. That is fully discussedelsewhere. Hum! To diffuse--intelligence--from a fixed island--over onehundred leagues of water."It's a stinger. But I can't complain. I had read Lempriere, and Smithand Bryant, and mythology in general, yet I must go and fall in love withthe Sphinx. Men are so vain. Vanity whispered, She will set you a lightone; why is a cobbler like a king, for instance? She is not in love withyou, ye fool, if you are with her. The harder the riddle the higher thecompliment the Sphinx pays you. That is the way all sensible men look atit. She is not the Sphinx; she is an angel, and I call her my LadyCaprice. _Hate her for being Caprice!_ You incorrigible muddle-head. Why,I love Caprice for being her shadow. Poor, impotent love that can't solvea problem. The only one she ever set me. I've gone about it like a fool.What is the use putting up little bits of telegraphs on the island? I'llmake a kite a hundred feet high, get five miles of rope ready against thenext hurricane; and then I'll rub it with phosphorus and fly it. But whatcan I fasten it to? No tree would hold it. Dunce. To the island itself,of course. And now go to Stantle, Magg, Milton, and Copestake for onethousand yards of silk--_Money! Money! Money!_ Well, give them a mortgageon the island, and a draft on the galleon. Now stop the pitch-fountain,and bore a hole near it; fill fifty balloons with gas, inscribe them withthe latitude and longitude, fly them, and bring all the world about ourears. The problem is solved. It is solved and I am destroyed. She leavesme; she thinks no more of me. Her heart is in England."Then he muttered for a long time unintelligibly; and Helen ventured near,and actually laid her hand on his brow to soothe him. But suddenly hismuttering ceased, and he seemed to be puzzling hard over something.The result came out in a clear articulate sentence, that made Helenrecoil, and, holding by the mast, cast an indescribable look of wonderand dismay on the speaker.The words that so staggered her were these to the letter:"She says she hates reptiles. Yet she marries Arthur Wardlaw."CHAPTER XXXIX.THE very name of Arthur Wardlaw startled Helen, and made her realize howcompletely her thoughts had been occupied with another.But add to that the strange and bitter epigram! Or was it a merefortuitous concourse of words?She was startled, amazed, confounded, puzzled. And, ere she could recoverher composure, Hazel was back to his problem again; but no longer withthe same energy.He said in a faint and sleepy voice: "'He maketh the winds Hismessengers, and flames of fire His ministers.' Ah! if I could do that!Well, why not? I can do anything she bids me--_Graeculus esuriens coelum jusseris ibit."_And soon after this doughty declaration he dozed off, and forgot all histrouble for a while.The sun rose, and still he slept, and Helen watched him with undisguisedtenderness in her face; undisguised now that he could not see it. Erelong she had companions in her care. Ponto came out of his den, andsniffed about the boat; and then began to scratch it, and whimper for hisfriend. Tommy swam out of the sea, came to the boat, discovered, Heavenknows how, that his friend was there, and, in the way of noises, dideverything but speak. The sea-birds followed and fluttered here and therein an erratic way, with now and then a peck at each other. All animatednature seemed to be uneasy at this eclipse of their Hazel.At last Tommy raised himself quite perpendicular, in a vain endeavor tolook into the boat, and invented a whine in the minor key, which tells ondogs: it set Ponto off in a moment; he sat upon his tail, and delivered along and most deplorable howl."Everything loves him," thought Helen. With Ponto's music Hazel awoke andfound her watching him, with tears in her eyes; he said softly: "MissRolleston! There is nothing the matter, I hope. Why am I not up gettingthings for your breakfast?""Dear friend," said she, "why you are not doing things for me andforgetting yourself is because you have been very ill. And I am yournurse. Now tell me what I shall get you. Is there nothing you couldfancy?"No; he had no appetite; she was not to trouble about him. And then hetried to get up; but that gave him such a pain in his loins he was fainto lie down again. So then he felt that he had got rheumatic fever. Hetold her so; but, seeing her sweet anxious face, begged her not to bealarmed--he knew what to take for it. Would she be kind enough to go tohis arsenal and fetch some specimens of bark she would find there, andalso the keg of rum?She flew at the word, and soon made him an infusion of the barks inboiling water; to which the rum was added.His sweet nurse administered this from time to time. The barks used wereof the cassia tree, and a wild citron tree. Cinchona did not exist inthis island, unfortunately. Perhaps there was no soil for it at asufficient elevation above the sea.Nevertheless with these inferior barks they held the fever in check. Butthe pain was obstinate, and cost Helen many a sigh; for, if she camesoftly, she could often hear him moan; and, the moment he heard her foot,he set to and whistled, for a blind; with what success may be imagined.She would have bought those pains, or a portion of them; ay, and paid aheavy price for them.But pain, like everything, intermits, and in those blessed intervals hismind was more active than ever, and ran a great deal upon what he calledthe Problem.But she, who had set it him, gave him little encouragement now to puzzleover it.The following may serve as a specimen of their conversation on that head."The air of this island," said he, "gives one a sort of vague sense ofmental power. It leads to no result in my case. Still, it is an agreeablesensation to have it floating across my mind that some day I shall solvethe Great Problem. Ah! if I was only an inventor!""And so you are.""No, no," said Hazel, disclaiming as earnestly as some people claim; "Ido things that look like acts of invention, but they are acts of memory.I could show you plates and engravings of all the things I have seemed toinvent. A man who studies books instead of skimming them can cut a dashin a desert island, until the fatal word goes forth--invent; and then youfind him out.""I am sure I wish I had never said the fatal word. You will never getwell if you puzzle your brain over impossibilities.""Impossibilities! But is not that begging the question? The measure ofimpossibilities is lost in the present age. I propose a test. Let us goback a century, and suppose that three problems were laid before the menof that day, and they were asked to decide which is the most impossible:1st, to diffuse intelligence from a fixed island over a hundred leaguesof water; 2d, to make the sun take in thirty seconds likenesses moreexact than any portrait-painter ever took--likenesses that can be soldfor a shilling at fifty per cent profit; 3d, for New York and London toexchange words by wire so much faster than the earth can turn, thatLondon shall tell New York at ten on Monday morning what was the price ofconsols at two o'clock Monday afternoon.""That is a story," said Helen, with a look of angelic reproach."I accept that reply," said Hazel. "As for me, I have got a smattering ofso many subjects, all full of incredible truths, that my faith in theimpossibility of anything is gone. Ah! if James Watt was only hereinstead of John Hazel--James Watt from the Abbey with a head as big as apumpkin--he would not have gone groping about the island, writing onrocks, and erecting signals. No; he would have had some grand and boldidea worthy of the proposition.""Well, so I think," said Helen, archly; "that great man with the greathead would have begun by making a kite a hundred yards high.""Would he? Well, he was quite capable of it.""Yes; and rubbed it with phosphorus, and flown it the first tempest, andmade the string fast to--the island itself.""Well, that is an idea," said Hazel, staring; "rather hyperbolical, Ifear. But, after all, it is an idea.""Or else," continued Helen, "he would weave a thousand yards of somelight fabric, and make balloons; then he would stop the pitch-fountain,bore a hole in the rock near it, and so get the gas, fill the balloons,inscribe them with our sad story and our latitude and longitude, and sendthem flying all over the ocean--there!"Hazel was amazed."I resign my functions to you," said he. "What imagination! Whatinvention!""Oh, dear no," said Helen slyly; "acts of memory sometimes pass forinvention, you know. Shall I tell you? when first you fell ill you wererather light-headed, and uttered the strangest things. They would havemade me laugh heartily, only I couldn't--for crying. And you said thatabout kites and balloons, every word.""Did I? then I have most brains when I have least reason, that's all.""Ay," said Helen, "and other strange things--very strange and bitterthings. One I should like to ask you about, what on earth you could meanby it; but perhaps you meant nothing, after all.""I'll soon tell you," said Hazel; but he took the precaution to add,"provided I know what it means myself."She looked at him steadily, and was on the point of seeking theexplanation so boldly offered; but her own courage failed her. Shecolored and hesitated."I shall wait," said she, "till you are quite, quite well. That will besoon, I hope; only you must be good, and obey my prescriptions. Cultivatepatience; it is a wholesome plant; bow the pride of that intellect whichyou see a fever can lay low in an hour. Aspire no more beyond the powersof man. Here we shall stay unless Providence sends us a ship. I haveceased to repine. And don't you begin. Dismiss that problem altogether;see how hot it has made your poor brow. Be good now, and dismiss it; orelse do as I do--fold it up, put it quietly away in a corner of yourmind, and, when you least expect, it will pop out solved."(Oh, comfortable doctrine! But how about Jamie Watt's headaches? And whyare the signs of hard thoughts so much stronger in his brow and face thanin Shakespeare's? Mercy on us, there is another problem.)Hazel smiled, well pleased, and leaned back, soothed, silenced, subdued,by her soft voice and the exquisite touch of her velvet hand on his hotbrow; for, woman-like, she laid her hand like down on that burning browto aid her words in soothing it. Nor did it occur to him just then thatthis admonition, delivered with a kind maternal hand, maternal voice,came from the same young lady who had flown at him like a wild-cat withthis very problem in her mouth. She mesmerized him, problem and all; hesubsided into a complacent languor, and at last went to sleep, thinkingonly of her. But the topic had entered his mind too deeply to be finallydismissed. It returned next day, though in a different form. You mustknow that Hazel, as he lay on his back in the boat, had often, in ahalf-drowsy way, watched the effect of the sun upon the boat's mast; itnow stood, a bare pole, and at certain hours acted like the needle of adial by casting a shadow on the sands. Above all, he could see prettywell by means of this pole and its shadow when the sun attained itsgreatest elevation. He now asked Miss Rolleston to assist him in makingthis observation exactly.She obeyed his instructions, and the moment the shadow reached itshighest angle, and showed the minutest symptom of declension, she said,"Now," and Hazel called out in a loud voice:"Noon!""And forty-nine minutes past eight at Sydney," said Helen, holding outher chronometer; for she had been sharp enough to get it ready of her ownaccord.Hazel looked at her and at the watch with amazement and incredulity."What?" said he. "Impossible. You can't have kept Sydney time all thiswhile.""And pray why not?" said Helen. "Have you forgotten that once somebodypraised me for keeping Sydney time; it helped you, somehow or other, toknow where we were.""And so it will now," cried Hazel, exultingly. "But no! it is impossible.We have gone through scenes that-- You can't have wound that watch upwithout missing a day.""Indeed but I have," said Helen. "Not wind my watch up! Why, if I wasdying I should wind my watch up. See, it requires no key; a touch or twoof the fingers and it is done. Oh, I am remarkably constant in all myhabits; and this is an old friend I never neglect. Do you remember thatterrible night in the boat, when neither of us expected to see themorning--oh, how good and brave you were!--well, I remember winding it upthat night. I kissed it, and bade it good-by. But I never dreamed of notwinding it up because I was going to be killed. What! am I not to bepraised again, as I was on board ship? Stingy! can't afford to praise onetwice for the same thing.""Praised!" cried Hazel excitedly; "worshiped, you mean. Why, we have gotthe longitude by means of your chronometer. It is wonderful! It isprovidential! It is the finger of Heaven! Pen and ink, and let me work itout."In his excitement he got up without assistance, and was soon busycalculating the longitude of Godsend Isle.CHAPTER XL."THERE," said he. "Now the latitude I must guess at by certaincombinations. In the first place, the slight variation in the length ofthe days. Then I must try and make a rough calculation of the sun'sparallax. And then my botany will help me a little; spices furnish aclew; there are one or two that will not grow outside the tropic. It wasthe longitude that beat me, and now we have conquered it. Hurrah! Now Iknow what to diffuse, and in what direction; east, southeast; the duckshave shown me that much. So there's the first step toward the impossibleproblem.""Very well," said Helen; "and I am sure one step is enough for one day. Iforbid you the topic for twelve hours at least. I detest it because italways makes your poor head so hot.""What on earth does that matter?" said Hazel, impetuously, and almostcrossly."Come, come, come, sir," said Helen authoritatively; "it matters to me."But when she saw that he could think of nothing else, and that oppositionirritated him, she had the tact and good sense not to strain herauthority, nor to irritate her subject.Hazel spliced a long, fine-pointed stick to the mast-head, and set aplank painted white with guano at right angles to the base of the mast;and so, whenever the sun attained his meridian altitude, went into adifficult and subtle calculation to arrive at the latitude, or as near itas he could without proper instruments. And he brooded and brooded overhis discovery of the longitude, but unfortunately he could not advance.In some problems the first step once gained leads, or at least points, tothe next; but to know whereabouts they were, and to let others know it,were two difficulties heterogeneous and distinct.Having thought and thought till his head was dizzy, at last he tookHelen's advice and put it by for a while. He set himself to fit andnumber a quantity of pearl-oyster shells, so that he might be able toplace them at once, when he should be able to recommence his labor oflove in the cavern.One day Helen had left him so employed, and was busy cooking the dinnerat her own place, but, mind you, with one eye on the dinner and anotheron her patient, when suddenly she heard him shouting very loud, and ranout to see what was the matter.He was roaring like mad, and whirling his arms over his head like ademented windmill.She ran to him."Eureka! Eureka!" he shouted, in furious excitement."Oh, dear!" cried Helen; "never mind." She was all against her patientexciting himself.But he was exalted beyond even her control. "Crown me with laurel," hecried; "I have solved the problem." And up went his arms."Oh, is that all?" said she, calmly."Get me two squares of my parchment," cried he; "and some of the finestgut.""Will not after dinner do?""No; certainly not," said Hazel, in a voice of command. "I wouldn't waita moment for all the flesh-pots of Egypt."Then she went like the wind and fetched them."Oh, thank you! thank you! Now I want--let me see--ah, there's an oldrusty hoop that was washed ashore, on one of that ship's casks. I put itcarefully away; how the unlikeliest things come in useful soon or late!"She went for the hoop, but not so rapidly, for here it was that the firstfaint doubt of his sanity came in. However, she brought it, and hethanked her."And now," said he, "while I prepare the intelligence, will you be sokind as to fetch me the rushes?""The what?" said Helen, in growing dismay."The rushes! I'll tell you where to find some."Helen thought the best thing was to temporize. Perhaps he would be betterafter eating some wholesome food. "I'll fetch them directly afterdinner," said she. "But it will be spoiled if I leave it for long; and Ido so want it to be nice for you to-day.""Dinner?" cried Hazel. "What do I care for dinner now? I am solving myproblem. I'd rather go without dinner for years than interrupt a greatidea. Pray let dinner take its chance, and obey me for once.""For once!" said Helen, and turned her mild hazel eyes on him with such alook of gentle reproach."Forgive me! But don't take me for a child, asking you for a toy; I'm apoor crippled inventor, who sees daylight at last. Oh, I am on fire; and,if you want me not to go into a fever, why, get me my rushes.""Where shall I find them?" said Helen, catching fire at him."Go to where your old hut stood, and follow the river about a furlong.You will find a bed of high rushes. Cut me a good bundle, cut them belowthe water, choose the stoutest. Here is a pair of shears I found in theship."She took the shears and went swiftly across the sands and up the slope.He watched her with an admiring eye; and well he might, for it was thevery poetry of motion. Hazel in his hours of health had almost given upwalking; he ran from point to point, without fatigue or shortness ofbreath. Helen, equally pressed for time, did not run; but she went almostas fast. By rising with the dawn, by three meals a day of animal food, byconstant work, and heavenly air, she was in a condition women rarelyattain to. She was _trained._ Ten miles was no more to her than tenyards. And, when she was in a hurry, she got over the ground by a grandbut feminine motion not easy to describe. It was a series of smoothundulations, not vulgar strides, but swift rushes, in which the loinsseemed to propel the whole body, and the feet scarcely to touch theground. It was the vigor and freedom of a savage, with the grace of alady.And so it was she swept across the sands and up the slope,  _"Et vera incessu patuit Dea."_While she was gone, Hazel cut two little squares of seals' bladder, onelarger than the other. On the smaller he wrote: "An English lady wreckedon an island. W. longitude 103 deg. 30 min., S. latitude between the 33dand 26th parallels. Haste to her rescue." Then he folded this small, andinclosed it in the larger slip, which he made into a little bag, and tiedthe neck extremely tight with fine gut, leaving a long piece of the gutfree.And now Helen came gliding back, as she went, and brought him a largebundle of rushes.Then he asked her to help him fasten these rushes round the iron hoop."It must not be done too regularly," said he; "but so as to look as muchlike a little bed of rushes as possible."Helen was puzzled still, but interested. So she set to work, and, betweenthem, they fastened rushes all round the hoop, although it was a largeone.But, when it was done, Hazel said they were too bare."Then we will fasten another row," said Helen, good-humoredly. And,without more ado, she was off to the river again.When she came back, she found him up, and he said the great excitementhad cured him--such power has the brain over the body. This convinced herhe had really hit upon some great idea. And, when she had made him eathis dinner by her fire, she asked him to tell her all about it.But, by a natural reaction, the glorious and glowing excitement of mindthat had battled his very rheumatic pains was now followed by doubt anddejection."Don't ask me yet," he sighed. "Theory is one thing; practice is another.We count without our antagonists. I forgot they will set their witsagainst mine; and they are many, I am but one. And I have been so oftendefeated. Do you know I have observed that whenever I say beforehand, NowI am going to do something clever, I am always defeated. Pride reallygoes before destruction, and vanity before a fall."The female mind, rejecting all else, went like a needle's point at onething in this explanation. "Our antagonists?" said Helen, looking sadlypuzzled. "Why, what antagonists have we?""The messengers," said Hazel, with a groan. "The aerial messengers."That did the business. Helen dropped the subject with almost ludicroushaste; and, after a few commonplace observations, made a nice comfortabledose of grog and bark for him. This she administered as an independenttransaction, and not at all by way of comment on his antagonists, theaerial messengers.It operated unkindly for her purpose; it did him so much good that helifted up his dejected head, and his eyes sparkled again, and he set towork, and, by sunset, prepared two more bags of bladder with inscriptionsinside, and long tails of fine gut hanging. He then set to work, and,with fingers far less adroit than hers, fastened another set of rushesround the hoop. He set them less evenly, and some of them not quiteperpendicular; and, while he was fumbling over this, and examining theeffect with paternal glances, Helen's hazel eye dwelt on him with furtivepity; for, to her, this girdle of rushes was now an instrument that borean ugly likeness to the scepter of straw, with which vanity run to seedsways imaginary kingdoms in Bedlam or Bicetre.And yet he was better. He walked about the cavern and conversedcharmingly; he was dictionary, essayist, _raconteur,_ anything she liked;and, as she prudently avoided and ignored the one fatal topic, it was adelightful evening. Her fingers were as busy as his tongue. And, when heretired, she presented him with the fruits of a fortnight's work, aglorious wrapper made of fleecy cotton inclosed in a plaited web offlexible and silky grasses. He thanked her, and blessed her, and retiredfor the night.About midnight she awoke and felt uneasy. So she did what since hisillness she had done a score of times without his knowledge--she stolefrom her lair to watch him.She found him wrapped in her present, which gave her great pleasure; andsleeping like an infant, which gave her joy. She eyed him eloquently fora long time; and then very timidly put out her hand, and, in her qualityof nurse, laid it lighter than down upon his brow.The brow was cool, and a very slight moisture on it showed the fever wasgoing or gone.She folded her arms and stood looking at him; and she thought of all theytwo had done and suffered together. Her eyes absorbed him, devoured him.The time flew by unheeded. It was so sweet to be able to set her facefrom its restraint, and let all its sunshine beam on him; and, even whenshe retired at last, those light hazel eyes, that could flash fire attimes, but were all dove-like now, hung and lingered on him as if theycould never look at him enough.Half an hour before daybreak she was awakened by the dog howlingpiteously. She felt a little uneasy at that; not much. However, she gotup, and issued from her cavern, just as the sun showed his red eye abovethe horizon. She went toward the boat, as a matter of course. She foundPonto tied to the helm. The boat was empty, and Hazel nowhere to be seen.She uttered a scream of dismay.The dog howled and whined louder than ever.CHAPTER XLI.WARDLAW senior was not what you would call a tender-hearted man; but hewas thoroughly moved by General Rolleston's distress, and by hisfortitude. The gallant old man! Landing in England one week and goingback to the Pacific the next! Like goes with like; and Wardlaw senior,energetic and resolute himself, though he felt for his son, stricken downby grief, gave his heart to the more valiant distress of hiscontemporary. He manned and victualed the _Springbok_ for a long voyage,ordered her to Plymouth, and took his friend down to her by train.They went out to her in a boat. She was a screw steamer, that could sailnine knots an hour without burning a coal. As she came down the Channel,the general's trouble got to be well known on board her, and, when hecame out of the harbor, the sailors, by an honest, hearty impulse thatdid them credit, waited for no orders, but manned the yards to receivehim with the respect due to his services and his sacred calamity.On getting on board, he saluted the captain and the ship's company withsad dignity, and retired to his cabin with Mr. Wardlaw. There the oldmerchant forced on him by loan seven hundred pounds, chiefly in gold andsilver, telling him there was nothing like money, go where you will. Hethen gave him a number of notices he had printed, and a paper of adviceand instructions. It was written in his own large, clear, formal hand.General Rolleston tried to falter out his thanks. John Wardlawinterrupted him."Next to you I am her father; am I not?""You have proved it.""Well, then. However, if you do find her, as I pray to God you may, Iclaim the second kiss, mind that; not for myself, though; for my poorArthur, that lies on a sick-bed for her."General Rolleston assented to that in a broken voice. He could hardlyspeak.And so they parted: and that sad parent went out to the Pacific.To him it was indeed a sad and gloomy voyage; and the hope with which hewent on board oozed gradually away as the ship traversed the vast tracksof ocean. One immensity of water to be passed before that other immensitycould be reached, on whose vast, uniform surface the search was to bemade.To abridge this gloomy and monotonous part of our tale, suffice it to saythat he endured two months of water and infinity ere the vessel, fast asshe was, reached Valparaiso. Their progress, however, had been more thanonce interrupted to carry out Wardlaw's instructions. The poor generalhimself had but one idea; to go and search the Pacific with his own eyes;but Wardlaw, more experienced, directed him to overhaul every whaler andcoasting vessel he could, and deliver printed notices; telling the sadstory, and offering a reward for any positive information, good or bad,that should be brought in to his agent at Valparaiso.Acting on these instructions they had overhauled two or three coastingvessels as they steamed up from the Horn. They now placarded the port ofValparaiso, and put the notices on board all vessels bound westward; andthe captain of the _Springbok_ spoke to the skippers in the port. Butthey all shook their heads, and could hardly be got to give their mindsseriously to the inquiry, when they heard in what water the cutter waslast seen and on what course.One old skipper said, "Look on Juan Fernandez, and then at the bottom ofthe Pacific; but the sooner you look there the less time you will lose."From Valparaiso they ran to Juan Fernandez, which indeed seemed thelikeliest place; if she was alive.When the larger island of that group, the island dear alike to you whoread, and to us who write, this tale, came in sight, the father's heartbegan to beat higher.The ship anchored and took in coal, which was furnished at a wickedlyhigh price by Mr. Joshua Fullalove, who had virtually purchased theisland from Chili, having got it on lease for longer than the earthitself is to last, we hear.And now Rolleston found the value of Wardlaw's loan; it enabled him toprosecute his search through the whole group of islands; and he did hearat last of three persons who had been wrecked on Masa Fuero; one of thema female. He followed this up, and at last discovered the parties. Hefound them to be Spaniards, and the woman smoking a pipe.After this bitter disappointment he went back to the ship, and she was toweigh her anchor next morning.But, while General Rolleston was at Mesa Fuero, a small coasting vesselhad come in, and brought a strange report at second-hand, that in somedegree unsettled Captain Moreland's mind; and, being hotly discussed onthe forecastle, set the ship's company in a ferment.CHAPTER XLII.HAZEL had risen an hour before dawn for reasons well known to himself. Heput on his worst clothes, and a leathern belt, his little bags round hisneck, and took his bundle of rushes in his hand. He also provided himselfwith some pieces of raw fish and fresh oyster; and, thus equipped, wentup through Terrapin Wood, and got to the neighborhood of the lagoonbefore daybreak.There was a heavy steam on the water, and nothing else to be seen. He putthe hoop over his head, and walked into the water, not without aninternal shudder, it looked so cold.But instead of that, it was very warm, unaccountably warm. He walked inup to his middle, and tied his iron hoop to his belt, so as to prevent itsinking too deep. This done, he waited motionless, and seemed a littlebed of rushes. The sun rose, and the steam gradually cleared away, andHazel, peering through a hole or two he had made expressly in his bed ofrushes, saw several ducks floating about, and one in particular, allpurple, without a speck but his amber eye. He contrived to detach a pieceof fish, that soon floated to the surface near him. But no duck movedtoward it. He tried another, and another; then a mallard he had notobserved swam up from behind him, and was soon busy pecking at it withina yard of him. His heart beat; he glided slowly and cautiously forwardtill the bird was close to the rushes.Hazel stretched out his hand with the utmost care, caught hold of thebird's feet, and dragged him sharply under the water, and brought him upwithin the circle of the rushes. He quacked and struggled. Hazel sousedhim under directly, and so quenched the sound; then he glided slowly tothe bank, so slowly that the rushes merely seemed to drift ashore. Thishe did not to create suspicion, and so spoil the next attempt. As heglided, he gave his duck air every now and then, and soon got on terrafirma. By this time he had taught the duck not to quack, or he would getsoused and held under. He now took the long gut-end and tied it tightround the bird's leg, and so fastened the bag to him.Even while he was effecting this, a posse of ducks rose at the west endof the marsh, and took their flight from the island. As they passed,Hazel threw his captive up in the air; and such was the force of example,aided, perhaps, by the fright the captive had received, that Hazel's birdinstantly joined these travelers, rose with them into the high currents,and away, bearing the news eastward upon the wings of the wind. ThenHazel returned to the pool, and twice more he was so fortunate as tosecure a bird, and launch him into space.So hard is it to measure the wit of man, and to define his resources. Theproblem was solved; the aerial messengers were on the wing, diffusingover hundreds of leagues of water the intelligence that an English ladyhad been wrecked on an unknown island, in longitude 103 deg. 30 min., andbetween the 33d and 26th parallels of south latitude; and calling goodmen and ships to her rescue for the love of God.CHAPTER XLIII.AND now for the strange report that landed at Juan Fernandez whileGeneral Rolleston was searching Masa Fuero.The coaster who brought it ashore had been in company, at Valparaiso,with a whaler from Nantucket, who told him he had fallen in with a Dutchwhaler out at sea, and distressed for water. He had supplied the saidDutchman, who had thanked him, and given him a runlet of Hollands, andhad told him in conversation that he had seen land and a river reflectedon the sky, in waters where no land was marked in the chart; namely,somewhere between Juan Fernandez and Norfolk Island; and that, believingthis to be the reflection of a part of some island near at hand, and hiswater being low, though not at that time run out, he had goneconsiderably out of his course in hopes of finding this watered island,but could see nothing of it. Nevertheless, as his grandfather, who hadbeen sixty years at sea, and logged many wonderful things, had told himthe sky had been known to reflect both ships and land at a greatdistance, he fully believed there was an island somewhere in thatlongitude, not down on any chart; an island wooded and watered.This tale soon boarded the _Springbok,_ and was hotly discussed on theforecastle. It came to Captain Moreland's ears, and he examined theskipper of the coasting-smack. But this examination elicited nothing new,inasmuch as the skipper had the tale only at third hand. CaptainMoreland, however, communicated it to General Rolleston on his arrival,and asked him whether he thought it worth while to deviate from theirinstructions upon information of such a character. Rolleston shook hishead. "An island reflected in the sky!""No, sir; a portion of an island containing a river.""It is clearly a fable," said Rolleston, with a sigh."What is a fable, general?""That the sky can reflect terrestrial objects.""Oh, there I can't go with you. The phenomenon is rare, but it is wellestablished. I never saw it myself, but I have come across those thathave. Suppose we catechise the forecastle. Hy! Fok'sel!""Sir!""Send a man aft; the oldest seaman aboard.""Ay, ay, sir."There was some little delay; and then a sailor of about sixty slouchedaft, made a sea scrape, and, removing his cap entirely, awaited thecaptain's commands."My man," said the captain, "I want you to answer a question. Do youbelieve land and ships have ever been seen in the sky, reflected?""A many good seamen holds to that, sir," said the sailor, cautiously."Is it the general opinion of seamen before the mast? Come, tell us.Jack's as good as his master in these matters.""Couldn't say for boys and lubbers, sir. But I never met a full-grownseaman as denied that there. Sartainly few has seen it; but all of 'emhas seen them as has seen it; ships, and land, too; but mostly ships.Hows'ever, I had a messmate once as was sailing past a rock they callAilsa Craig, and saw a regiment of soldiers a-marching in the sky. Loggedit, did the mate; and them soldiers was a-marching between two towns inIreland at that very time.""There, you see, general," said Captain Moreland."But this is all second-hand," said General Rolleston, with a sigh; "andI have learned how everything gets distorted in passing from one toanother.""Ah," said the captain, "we can't help that; the thing is rare. I neversaw it for one; and I suppose you never saw a phenomenon of the kind,Isaac?""Hain't I!" said Isaac, grimly. Then, with sudden and not very reasonableheat, "D---- my eyes and limbs if I hain't seen the Peak o' Teneriffe inthe sky topsy-turvy, and as plain as I see that there cloud there"(pointing upward)."Come," said Moreland; "now we are getting to it. Tell us all aboutthat.""Well, sir," said the seaman, "I don't care to larn them as laughs ateverything they hain't seen in maybe a dozen voyages at most; but youknow me, and I knows you; though you command the ship, and I work beforethe mast. Now I axes you, sir, should you say Isaac Aiken was the man totake a sugar-loaf, or a cocked hat, for the Peak o' Teneriffe?""As likely as I am myself, Isaac.""No commander can say fairer nor that," said Isaac, with dignity. "Well,then, your honor, I'll tell ye the truth, and no lie. We was bound forTeneriffe with a fair wind, though not so much of it as we wanted, byreason she was a good sea-boat, but broad in the bows. The Peak hove insight in the sky, and all the glasses was at her. She lay a point or twoon our weather quarter like, full two hours, and then she just meltedaway like a lump o' sugar. We kept on our course a day and a half, and atlast we sighted the real Peak, and anchored off the port; whereby, whenwe saw Teneriffe Peak in the sky to winnard, she lay a hundred leagues toboard, s'help me God!""That is wonderful," said General Rolleston."That will do, Isaac," said the captain. "Mr. Butt, double his grog for aweek, for having seen more than I have."The captain and General Rolleston had a long discussion; but the resultwas, they determined to go to Easter Island first, for General Rollestonwas a soldier, and had learned to obey as well as command. He saw nosufficient ground for deviating from Wardlaw's positive instructions.This decision soon became known throughout the ship. She was to weighanchor at 11 A.M. next day, by high water.At eight next morning, Captain Moreland and General Rolleston being ondeck, one of the ship's boys, a regular pet, with rosy cheeks and blackeyes, comes up to the gentlemen, takes off his cap, and, panting audiblyat his own audacity, shoves a paper into General Rolleston's hand andscuds away for his life."This won't do," said the captain, sternly.The high-bred soldier handed the paper to him unopened.The captain opened it, looked a little vexed, but more amused, and handedit back to the general.It was a ROUND ROBIN.Round Robins are not ingratiating as a rule. But this one came from somerough but honest fellows, who had already shown that kindliness and tactmay reside in a coarse envelope. The sailors of the _Springbok,_ whenthey first boarded her in the Thames, looked on themselves as men boundon an empty cruise; and nothing but the pay, which was five shillings permonth above the average, reconciled them to it; for a sailor does notlike going to sea for nothing, any more than a true sportsman likes toride to hounds that are hunting a red herring trailed.But the sight of the general had touched them afar off. His gray hair andpale face, seen as he rowed out of Plymouth Harbor, had sent them to theyards by a gallant impulse; and all through the voyage the game had beento put on an air of alacrity and hope, whenever they passed the generalor came under his eye.If hypocrisy is always a crime, this was a very criminal ship; for themen, and even the boys, were hypocrites, who, feeling quite sure that thedaughter was dead at sea months ago, did, nevertheless, make up theirfaces to encourage the father into thinking she was alive and he wasgoing to find her. But people who pursue this game too long, and keep upthe hopes of another, get infected at last themselves; and the crew ofthe _Springbok_ arrived at Valparaiso infected with a little hope. Thencame the Dutchman's tale, and the discussion, which ended adversely totheir views; and this elicited the circular we have now the honor to laybefore our readers.                     [We who sign                   About this line,           hope none offence and mean none          We think Easter Island is out of her        course. Such of us as can be spared are     ready and willing to take the old cutter, that   lies for sale, to Easter Island if needs be; but to    waste the Steamer it is a Pity. We are all agreed       the Dutch skipper saw land and water aloft     sailing between Juan Fernandez and Norfolk Isle,       and what a Dutchman can see on the sky we       think an Englishman can find it in the sea,         God willing. Whereby we pray our good        Captain to follow the Dutchman's course          with a good heart and a willing crew.                      And so say we                  Whose names here be.]General Rolleston and Captain Moreland returned to the cabin anddiscussed this document. They came on deck again, and the men were pipedaft. General Rolleston touched his cap, and, with the Round Robin in hishand, addressed them thus:"My men, I thank you for taking my trouble to heart as you do. But itwould be a bad return to send any of you to Easter Island in that cutter;for she is not seaworthy, so the captain tells me. I will not consent tothrow away your lives in trying to save a life that is dear to me. But,as to the Dutchman's story about an unknown island, our captain seems tothink that is possible; and you tell us you are of the same opinion.Well, then, I give up my own judgment, and yield to yours. Yes, we willgo westward with a good heart (he sighed), and a willing crew."The men cheered. The boatswain piped; the anchor was heaved, and the_Springbok_ went out on a course that bade fair to carry her within ahundred miles of Godsend Island.She ran fast. On the second day some ducks passed over her head, one ofwhich was observed to have something attached to its leg.She passed within sixty miles of Mount Lookout; but never saw GodsendIsland; and so pursued her way to the Society Islands; sent out herboats; made every inquiry around about the islands, but with no success;and, at last, after losing a couple of months there, brought theheart-sick father back on much the same course, but rather morenortherly.CHAPTER XLIV.HAZEL returned homeward in a glow of triumph, and for once felt disposedto brag to Helen of his victory--a victory by which she was to profit;not he.They met in the wood; for she had tracked him by his footsteps. Sheseemed pale and disturbed, and speedily interrupted his exclamations oftriumph by one of delight, which was soon, however, followed by one ofdistress."Oh, look at you!" she said. "You have been in the water. It is wicked;wicked.""But I have solved the problem. I caught three ducks one after the otherand tied the intelligence to their legs. They are at this momentcareering over the ocean, with our story and our longitude, and a guessat our latitude. Crown me with bays.""With foolscap, more likely," said Helen. "Only just getting well ofrheumatic fever, and to go and stand in water up to the middle.""Why, you don't listen to me!" cried Hazel, in amazement. "I tell you Ihave solved the problem.""It is you that don't listen to common sense," retorted Helen. "If you goand make yourself ill, all the problems in the world will not compensateme. And I must say I think it was not very kind of you to run off sowithout warning. Why give me hours of anxiety for want of a word? Butthere, it is useless to argue with a boy; yes, sir, a boy. The fact is, Ihave been too easy with you of late. One indulges sick children. But thenthey must not slip away and stand in the water, or there is an end ofindulgence; and one is driven to severity. You must be ruled with a rodof iron. Go home this moment, sir, and change your clothes; and don't youpresume to come into the presence of the nurse you have offended, tillthere's not a wet thread about you."And so she ordered him off. The inventor in his moment of victory slunkaway crestfallen to change his clothes.So far Helen Rolleston was a type of her sex in its treatment ofinventors. At breakfast she became a brilliant exception. The moment shesaw Hazel seated by her fire in dry clothes she changed her key and madehim relate the whole business, and expressed the warmest admiration, andsympathy."But," said she, "I do ask you not to repeat this exploit too often; nowdon't do it again for a fortnight. The island will not run away. Duckscome and go every day, and your health is very, very precious."He colored with pleasure, and made the promise at once. But during thisfortnight events occurred. In the first place, he improved his invention.He remembered how a duck, over-weighted by a crab, which was fast to herleg, had come on board the boat. Memory dwelling on this, and inventiondigesting it, he resolved to weight his next batch of ducks; for heargued thus: "Probably our ducks go straight from this to the greatAmerican Continent. Then it may be long ere one of them falls into thehands of a man; and perhaps that man will not know English. But, if Icould impede the flight of my ducks, they might alight on ships; andthree ships out of four know English."Accordingly, he now inserted stones of various sizes into the littlebags. It was a matter of nice calculation. The problem was to weight thebirds just so much that they might be able to fly three or four hundredmiles, or about half as far as their unencumbered companions.But in the midst of all this a circumstance occurred that would have madea vain man, or indeed most men, fling the whole thing away. Helen and hecame to a rupture. It began by her fault, and continued by his. She didnot choose to know her own mind, and, in spite of secret warnings fromher better judgment, she was driven by curiosity, or by the unhappyrestlessness to which her sex are peculiarly subject at odd times, tosound Hazel as to the meaning of a certain epigram that rankled in her.And she did it in the most feminine way, that is to say, in the leastdirect; whereas the safest way would have been to grasp the nettle, ifshe could not let it alone.Said she one day, quietly, though with a deep blush: "Do you know Mr.Arthur Wardlaw?"Hazel gave a shiver, and said, "I do.""Do you know anything about him?""I do.""Nothing to his discredit, I am sure.""If you are sure, why ask me? Do I ever mention his name?""Perhaps you do, sometimes, without intending it.""You are mistaken. He is in your thoughts, no doubt; but not in mine.""Ought I to forget people entirely, and what I owe them?""That is a question I decline to go into.""How harshly you speak to me. Is that fair? You know my engagement, andthat honor and duty draw me to England; yet I am happy here. You, who areso good and strong, might pity me at least; for I am torn this way andthat." And here the voice ceased and the tears began to flow."I do pity you," said Hazel. "I must pity any one who is obliged tomention honor and duty in the same breath as Arthur Wardlaw."At this time Helen drew back, offended bitterly. _"That_ pity I rejectand scorn," said she. "No, I plighted my faith with my eyes open, and toa worthy object. I never knew him blacken any person who was not there tospeak for himself, and that is a very worthy trait, in my opinion. Theabsent are like children; they are helpless to defend themselves."Hazel racked with jealousy, and irritated at this galling comparison,lost his temper for once, and said those who lay traps must not complainif others fall into them."Traps! Who lay them?""You did, Miss Rolleston. Did I ever condescend to mention that man'sname since we have been on the island? It is you make me talk of him.""Condescend?""That is the word. Nor will I ever deign to mention him again. If my lovehad touched your heart, I should have been obliged to mention him, forthen I should have been bound to tell you a story in which he is mixed,my own miserable story--my blood boils against the human race when Ithink of it. But no, I see I am nothing to you; and I will be silent.""It is very cruel of you to say that," replied Helen, with tears in hereyes; "tell me your story, and you will see whether you are nothing tome.""Not one word of it," said Hazel slowly, "until you have forgotten thatman exists.""Oh! thank you, sir, this is plain speaking. I am to forget honor andplighted faith; and then you will trust me with your secrets, when I haveshown myself unworthy to be trusted with anything. Keep your secrets, andI'll try and keep faith; ay, and I shall keep it, too, as long as there'slife in my body.""Can't you keep faith without torturing me, who love you?"Helen's bosom began to heave at this, but she fought bravely. "Love meless, and respect me more," said she, panting; "you affront me, youfrighten me. I looked on you as a brother, a dear brother. But now I amafraid of you-- I am afraid."He was so injudicious as to interrupt her, instead of giving her time tocontradict herself. "You have nothing to fear," said he; "keep this sideof the island, and I'll live on the other, rather than hear the name ofArthur Wardlaw."Helen's courage failed her at that spirited proposal, and she made noreply at all, but turned her back haughtily, and went away from him,only, when she had got a little way, her proud head drooped, and she wentcrying.A coolness sprang up between them, and neither of them knew how to endit. Hazel saw no way to serve her now, except by flying weighted ducks,and he gave his mind so to this that one day he told her he hadtwenty-seven ducks in the air, all charged, and two-thirds of themweighted. He thought that must please her now. To his surprise andannoyance, she received the intelligence coldly, and asked him whether itwas not cruel to the birds.Hazel colored with mortification at his great act of self-denial being soreceived.He said, "I don't think my worst enemy can say I am wantonly cruel toGod's creatures."Helen threw in, deftly, "And I am not your worst enemy.""But what other way is there to liberate you from this island, where youhave nobody to speak to but me? Well, selfishness is the best course.Think only of others, and you are sure not to please them.""If you want to please people, you must begin by understanding them,"said the lady, not ill-naturedly."But if they don't understand themselves?""Then pity them; you can, for you are a man.""What hurts me," said Hazel, "is that you really seem to think I flythese ducks for my pleasure. Why, if I had my wish, you and I shouldnever leave this island, nor any other person set a foot on it. I amfrank, you see.""Rather too frank.""What does it matter, since I do my duty all the same, and fly the ducks?But sometimes I do yearn for a word of praise for it; and that word nevercomes.""It is a praiseworthy act," said Helen, but so icily that it is a wonderhe ever flew another duck after that."No matter," said he, and his hand involuntarily sought his heart; "youread me a sharp but wholesome lesson, that we should do our duty for ourduty's sake. And as I am quite sure it is my duty to liberate you andrestore you to those you-- I'll fly three ducks to-morrow morning insteadof two.""It is not done by my advice," said Helen. "You will certainly makeyourself ill.""Oh, that is all nonsense!" said Hazel."You are rude to me," said Helen, "and I am not aware that I deserve it.""Rude, am I? Then I'll say no more," said Hazel, half humbly, halfdoggedly.His parchment was exhausted, and he was driven to another expedient. Heobtained alcohol by distillation from rum, and having found dragon'sblood in its pure state, little ruby drops, made a deep red varnish thatdefied water; he got slips of bark, white inside, cut his inscriptiondeep on the inner side, and filled the incised letters with this redvarnish. He had forty-eight ducks in the air, and was rising beforedaybreak to catch another couple, when he was seized with a pain in theright hip and knee, and found he could hardly walk, so he gave in thatmorning, and kept about the premises. But he got worse, and he had hardlyany use in his right side, from the waist downward, and was in greatpain.As the day wore on, the pain and loss of power increased, and resistedall his remedies; there was no fever to speak of; but Nature was grimlyrevenging herself for many a gentler warning neglected. When he realizedhis condition, he was terribly cut up, and sat on the sand with his headin his hands for nearly two hours. But, after that period of despondency,he got up, took his boat-hook, and, using it as a staff, hobbled to hisarsenal, and set to work.Among his materials was a young tree he had pulled up; the roots ran atright angles to the stem. He just sawed off the ends of the roots, andthen proceeded to shorten the stem.But meantime Helen, who had always a secret eye on him and his movements,had seen there was something wrong, and came timidly and asked what wasthe matter."Nothing," said he, doggedly."Then why did you sit so long on the sand? I never saw you like that.""I was ruminating.""What upon? Not that I have any right to ask.""On the arrogance and folly of men; they attempt more than they can do,and despise the petty prudence and common sense of women, and smart forit; as I am smarting now for being wiser than you.""Oh," said Helen; "why, what is the matter? and what is that you havemade? It looks like--oh, dear!""It is a crutch," said Hazel, with forced calmness; "and I am a cripple."Helen clasped her hands, and stood trembling.Hazel lost his self-control for a moment, and cried out in a voice ofagony, "A useless cripple. I wish I was dead and out of the way."Then, ashamed of having given way before her, he seized his crutch,placed the crook under his arm, and turned sullenly away from her.Four steps he took with his crutch.She caught him with two movements of her supple and vigorous frame.She just laid her left hand gently on his shoulder, and with her rightshe stole the crutch softly away, and let it fall upon the sand. She tookhis right hand, and put it to her lips like a subject paying homage toher sovereign; and then she put her strong arm under his shoulder, stillholding his right hand in hers, and looked in his face. "No woodencrutches when I am by," said she, in a low voice, full of devotion.He stood surprised, and his eyes began to fill."Come," said she, in a voice of music. And, thus aided, he went with herto her cavern. As they went she asked him tenderly where the pain was."It _was_ in my hip and knee," he said. "But now it is nowhere; for joyhas come back to my heart.""And to mine, too," said Helen; "except for this."The quarrel dispersed like a cloud under this calamity. There was noformal reconciliation; no discussion. And this was the wisest course, forthe unhappy situation remained unchanged; and the friendliest discussioncould only fan the embers of discord and misery gently, instead offiercely.The pair so strangely thrown together commenced a new chapter of theirexistence. It was not patient and nurse over again; Hazel, though verylame, had too much spirit left to accept that position. But still thesexes became in a measure reversed-- Helen the fisherman and forager,Hazel the cook and domestic.He was as busy as ever, but in a narrow circle; he found pearl oystersnear the sunk galleon, and, ere he had been lame many weeks, he hadentirely lined the sides of the cavern with mother-of-pearl set incement, and close as mosaic.Every day he passed an hour in paradise; for his living crutch made himtake a little walk with her; her hand held his; her arm supported hisshoulder; her sweet face was near his, full of tender solicitude; theyseemed to be one; and spoke in whispers to each other, like thinkingaloud. The causes of happiness were ever present; the causes ofunhappiness were out of sight, and showed no signs of approach.And, of the two, Helen was the happiest. Before a creature so pure asthis marries and has children, the great maternal instinct is stillthere, but feeds on what it can get--first a doll, and then some helplesscreature or other. Too often she wastes her heart's milk on somethinggrown up, but as selfish as a child. Helen was more fortunate; her childwas her hero, now so lame that he must lean on her to walk. The dayspassed by, and the island was fast becoming the world to those two, andas bright a world as ever shone on two mortal creatures.It was a happy dream.What a pity that dreams dissolve so soon! This had lasted for nearly twomonths, and Hazel was getting better, though still not well enough, ornot fool enough, to dismiss his live crutch, when one afternoon Helen,who had been up on the heights, observed a dark cloud in the blue skytoward the west. There was not another cloud visible, and the airmarvelously clear; time, about three quarters of an hour before sunset.She told Hazel about this solitary cloud, and asked him, with someanxiety, if it portended another storm. He told her to be under noalarm--there were no tempests in that latitude except at the coming andgoing out of the rains--but he should like to go round the Point and lookat her cloud.She lent him her arm, and they went round the Point; and there they saw acloud entirely different from anything they had ever seen since they wereon the island. It was like an enormous dark ribbon stretched along thesky, at some little height above the horizon. Notwithstanding itsprodigious length, it got larger before their very eyes.Hazel started.Helen felt him start, and asked him, with some surprise, what was thematter."Cloud!" said he; "that is no cloud. That is smoke.""Smoke!" echoed Helen, becoming agitated in her turn."Yes; the breeze is northerly, and carries the smoke nearer to us; it isthe smoke of a steamboat."CHAPTER XLV.BOTH were greatly moved; and after one swift glance Helen stole at him,neither looked at the other. They spoke in flurried whispers."Can they see the island?""I don't know; it depends on how far the boat is to windward of hersmoke.""How shall we know?""If she sees the island she will make for it that moment.""Why? do ships never pass an unknown island?""Yes. But that steamer will not pass us.""But why?"At this question Hazel hung his head, and his lip quivered. He answeredher at last. "Because she is looking for you."Helen was struck dumb at this.He gave his reasons. "Steamers never visit these waters. Love has broughtthat steamer out; love that will not go unrewarded. Arthur Wardlaw is onboard that ship.""Have they seen us yet?"Hazel forced on a kind of dogged fortitude. He said, "When the smokeceases to elongate, you will know they have changed their course, andthey will change their course the moment the man at the mast-head seesus.""Oh! But how do you know they have a man at the mast-head?""I know by myself. I should have a man at the mast-head night and day."And now the situation was beyond words. They both watched, and watched,to see the line of smoke cease.It continued to increase, and spread eastward; and that proved thesteamer was continuing her course.The sun drew close to the horizon."They don't see us," said Helen, faintly."No," said Hazel; "not yet.""And the sun is just setting. It is all over." She put her handkerchiefto her eyes a moment, and then, after a sob or two, she said almostcheerfully, "Well, dear friend, we were happy till that smoke came todisturb us. Let us try and be as happy now it is gone. Don't smile likethat, it makes me shudder.""Did I smile? It must have been at your simplicity in thinking we haveseen the last of that steamer.""And so we have.""Not so. In three hours she will be at anchor in that bay.""Why, what will bring her?""I shall bring her.""You? How?""By lighting my bonfire."CHAPTER XLVI.HELEN had forgotten all about the bonfire. She now asked whether he wassure those on board the steamer could see the bonfire. Then Hazel toldher that it was now of prodigious size and height. Some six months beforehe was crippled he had added and added to it."That bonfire," said he, "will throw a ruddy glare over the heavens thatthey can't help seeing on board the steamer. Then, as they are not on acourse, but on a search, they will certainly run a few miles southward tosee what it is. They will say it is either a beacon or a ship on fire;and, in either case, they will turn the boat's head this way. Well,before they have run southward half a dozen miles, their lookout will seethe bonfire, and the island in its light. Let us get to the boat, mylucifers are there."She lent him her arm to the boat, and stood by while he made hispreparations. They were very simple. He took a pine torch and smeared itall over with pitch; then put his lucifer-box in his bosom and took hiscrutch. His face was drawn pitiably, but his closed lips betrayedunshaken and unshakable resolution. He shouldered his crutch, and hobbledup as far as the cavern. Here Helen interposed."Don't you go toiling up the hill," said she. "Give me the lucifers andthe torch and let me light the beacon. I shall be there in half the timeyou will.""Thank you! thank you!" said Hazel, eagerly, not to say violently.He wanted it done; but it killed him to do it. He then gave her hisinstructions."It is as big as a haystack," said he, "and as dry as a chip; and thereare eight bundles of straw placed expressly. Light bundles to windwardfirst, then the others; it will soon be all in a blaze.""Meanwhile," said Helen, "you prepare our supper. I feel quite faint--forwant of it."Hazel assented."It is the last we shall--" he was going to say it was the last theywould eat together; but his voice failed him, and he hobbled into thecavern, and tried to smother his emotion in work. He lighted the fire,and blew it into a flame with a palmetto-leaf, and then he sat downawhile, very sick at heart; then he got up and did the cooking, sighingall the time; and, just when he was beginning to wonder why Helen was solong lighting eight bundles of straw, she came in, looking pale."Is it all right?" said he."Go and look," said she. "No, let us have our supper first."Neither had any appetite. They sat and kept casting strange looks at oneanother.To divert this anyhow, Hazel looked up at the roof, and said faintly, "IfI had known, I would have made more haste, and set pearl _there_ aswell.""What does that matter?" said Helen, looking down."Not much, indeed," replied he, sadly. "I am a fool to utter suchchildish regrets; and, more than that, I am a mean selfish cur to _have_a regret. Come, come, we can't eat; let us go round the Point and see thewaves reddened by the beacon that gives you back to the world you wereborn to embellish."Helen said she would go directly. And her languid reply contrastedstrangely with his excitement. She played with her supper, and wastedtime in a very unusual way, until he told her plump she was not reallyeating, and he could wait no longer, he must go and see how the beaconwas burning."Oh, very well," said she; and they went down to the beach.She took his crutch and gave it to him. This little thing cut him to theheart. It was the first time she had accompanied him so far as thatwithout offering herself to be his crutch. He sighed deeply, as he putthe crutch under his arm; but he was too proud to complain, only he laidit all on the approaching steamboat.The subtle creature by his side heard the sigh, and smiled sadly at beingmisunderstood--but what man could understand her? They hardly spoke tillthey reached the Point. The waves glittered in the moonlight; there wasno red light on the water."Why, what is this?" said Hazel. "You can't have lighted the bonfire ineight places, as I told you."She folded her arms and stood before him in an attitude of defiance; allbut her melting eye."I have not lighted it at all," said she.Hazel stood aghast. "What have I done?" he cried. "Duty, manhood,everything demanded that I should light that beacon, and I trusted it toyou."Then Helen's attitude of defiance melted away. She began to cower, andhid her blushing face in her hands. Then she looked up imploringly. Thenshe uttered a wild and eloquent cry, and fled from him like the wind.CHAPTER XLVII.THAT cloud was really the smoke of the _Springbok,_ which had mountedinto air so thin that it could rise no higher. The boat herself was manymiles to the northward, returning full of heavy hearts from a fruitlesssearch. She came back in a higher parallel of latitude, intendingafterward to steer N.W. to Easter Island. The life was gone out of theship; the father was deeply dejected, and the crew could no longer feignthe hope they did not feel. Having pursued the above course to withinfour hundred miles of Juan Fernandez, General Rolleston begged thecaptain to make a bold deviation to the S.W., and then see if they couldfind nothing there before going to Easter Island.Captain Moreland was very unwilling to go to the S.W., the more so ascoal was getting short. However, he had not the heart to refuse GeneralRolleston anything. There was a northerly breeze. He had the fires putout, and, covering the ship with canvas, sailed three hundred miles S.W.But found nothing. Then he took in sail, got up steam again, and away forEaster Island. The ship ran so fast that she had got into latitudethirty-two by ten A.M. next morning.At 10h. 15m. the dreary monotony of this cruise was broken by the man atthe mast-head."On deck there!""Hullo!""The schooner on our weather-bow!""Well, what of her?""She has luffed.""Well, what o' that?""She has altered her course.""How many points?""She was sailing S.E., and now her head is N.E.""That is curious."General Rolleston, who had come and listened with a grain of hope, nowsighed, and turned away.The captain explained kindly that the man was quite right to draw hiscaptain's attention to the fact of a trading-vessel altering her course."There is a sea-grammar, general," said he; "and, when one seaman seesanother violate it, he concludes there is some reason or other. Now,Jack, what d'ye make of her?""I can't make much of her; she don't seem to know her own mind, that isall. At ten o'clock she was bound for Valparaiso or the Island. But nowshe has come about and beating to windward.""Bound for Easter Island?""I dunno.""Keep your eye on her.""Ay, ay, sir."Captain Moreland told General Rolleston that very few ships went toEaster Island, which lies in a lovely climate, but is a miserable place;and he was telling the general that it is inhabited by savages of a loworder, who half worship the relics of masonry left by their morecivilized predecessors, when Jack hailed the deck again."Well," said the captain."I think she is bound for the _Springbok."_The soldier received this conjecture with astonishment and incredulity,not to be wondered at. The steamboat headed N.W.; right in the wind'seye. Sixteen miles off, at least, a ship was sailing N.E. So that the twocourses might be represented thus:     \          /      \        /   A   \      /  BAnd there hung in the air, like a black mark against the blue sky, afellow, whose oracular voice came down and said B was endeavoring tointercept A.Nevertheless, time confirmed the conjecture; the schooner, having made ashort board to the N.E., came about, and made a long board due west,which was as near as he could lie to the wind. On this Captain Morelandlaid the steamboat's head due north. This brought the vessels rapidlytogether.When they were about two miles distant, the stranger slackened sail andhove to, hoisting stars and stripes at her mizzen. The union jack went upthe shrouds of the _Springbok_ directly, and she pursued her course, butgradually slackened her steam.General Rolleston walked the deck in great agitation, and now indulged inwild hopes, which Captain Moreland thought it best to discourage at once."Ah, sir," he said; "don't you run into the other extreme, and imagine hehas come on our business. It is at sea as it is ashore. If a man goes outof his course to speak to you, it is for his own sake, not yours. ThisYankee has got men sick with scurvy, and is come for lime-juice. Or hiswater is out. Or--hallo, savages aboard." It was too true. The schoonerhad a cargo of savages, male and female; the males were nearly naked, butthe females, strange to say, were dressed to the throat in ample robeswith broad and flowing skirts and had little coronets on their heads. Assoon as the schooner hove to, the fiddle had struck up, and the savageswere now dancing in parties of four; the men doing a sort of monkeyhornpipe in quick pace, with their hands nearly touching the ground; thewomen, on the contrary, erect and queenly, swept about in slow rhythm,with most graceful and coquettish movements of the arms and hands, andbewitching smiles.The steamboat came alongside, but at a certain distance, to avoid allchance of collision; and the crew clustered at the side and cheered thesavages dancing. The poor general was forgotten at the merry sight.Presently a negro in white cotton, with a face blacker than the savages,stepped forward and hoisted a board, on which was printed very large, AREYOUHaving allowed this a moment to sink into the mind, he reversed theboard, and showed these words, also printed large, THE _SPRINGBOK?_There was a thrilling murmur on board; and, after a pause of surprise,the question was answered by a loud cheer and waving of hats.The reply was perfectly understood; almost immediately a boat was loweredby some novel machinery and pulled toward the steamer. There were two menin it, the skipper and the negro. The skipper came up the side of the_Springbok._ He was loosely dressed in some light drab-colored stuff anda huge straw hat; a man with a long Puritanical head, a nose inclined tobe aquiline, a face bronzed by weather and heat, thin, resolute lips, anda square chin. But for a certain breadth between his keen gray eyes,which revealed more intellect than Cromwell's Ironsides were encumberedwith, he might have passed for one of that hard-praying, hard-hittingfraternity.He came on deck, just touched his hat, as if to brush away a fly, and,removing an enormous cigar from his mouth, said, "Wal, and so this is the_Springbok._ Spry little boat she is; how many knots can ye get out ofher now? Not that I am curious.""About twelve knots.""And when the steam's off the bile, how many can you sail? Not that it ismy business.""Eight or nine. What _is_ your business?""Hum! You have been over _some_ water looking for that gal. Where do yehail from last?""The Society Islands. Did you board me to hear me my catechism?""No, I am not one of your prying sort. Where are ye bound for now?""I am bound for Easter Island.""Have you heard anything of the gal?""No.""And when do ye expec' to go back to England as wise as ye came?""Never while the ship can swim," cried Moreland angrily, to hide hisdespondency from this stranger. "And now it is my turn, I think. Whatschooner is this? by whom commanded, and whither bound?""The _Julia Dodd;_ Joshua Fullalove; bound for Juan Fernandez with theraw material of civilization--look at the varmint skippin'--and aprinting-press; an' that's the instrument of civilization, I ratherthink.""Well, sir; and why in Heaven's name did you change your course?""Wal, I reckon I changed it--to tell you a lie.""To tell us a lie?""Ay; the darnedest etarnal lie that ever came out of a man's mouth. Fust,there's an unknown island somewheres about. That's a kinder flourishbeforehand. On that island there's an English gal wrecked."Exclamations burst forth on every side at this."And she is so tarnation 'cute, she is flying ducks all over creationwith a writing tied to their legs, telling the tale, and setting down thelongitude. There, if that isn't a buster, I hope I may never live to tellanother.""God bless you, sir," cried the general. "Where is the island?""What island?""The island where my child is wrecked.""What, are you the gal's father?" said Joshua, with a sudden touch offeeling."I am, sir. Pray withhold nothing from me you know.""Why, cunule," said the Yankee, soothingly; "don't I tell you it's abuster? However, the lie is none o' mine, it's that old cuss Skinflintset it afloat; he is always pisoning these peaceful waters."Rolleston asked eagerly who Skinflint was, and where he could be found."Wal, he is a sorter sea Jack-of-all-trades, etarnally cruising about tobuy gratis--those he buys of call it stealing. Got a rotten old cutter,manned by his wife and fam'ly. They get coal out of me for fur, and sellthe coal at double my price; they kill seals and dress the skins aboard;kill fish and salt 'em aboard. Ye know when that fam'ly is at sea by thesmell that pervades the briny deep an' heralds their approach. Yesterdaythe air smelt awful. So I said to Vespasian here, 'I think that sea-skunkis out, for there's something a-pisoning the cerulean waves an'succumambient air.' We hadn't sailed not fifty miles more before we runagin him. Their clothes were drying all about the rigging. Hails me, thevarmint does. Vesp and I, we work the printing-press together, an' soorder him to looward, not to taint our Otaheitans, that stink of ile athome, but I had 'em biled before I'd buy 'em, an' now they're vilets.'Wal now, Skinflint,' says I; 'I reckon you're come to bring me thatharpoon o' mine you stole last time you was at my island?' 'I never sawyour harpoon,' says he; 'I want to know have you come across the_Springbok?'_ 'Mebbe I have,' says I; 'why do you ask?' 'Got news forher,' says he; 'and can't find her nowheres.' So then we set to andfenced a bit; and this old varmint, to put me off the truth, told me thebuster. A month ago or more he was boarded--by a duck. And this yar duckhad a writing tied to his leg, and this yar writing said an English galwas wrecked on an island, and put down the very longitude. 'Show me thatduck,' says I, ironical. 'D'ye take us for fools?' says he; 'we ate theduck for supper.' 'That was like ye,' says I; 'if an angel brought yourpardon down from heights celestial, you'd roast him, and sell hisfeathers for swan's-down; mebbe ye ate the writing? I know y' are ahungry lot.' 'The writing is in my cabin,' says he. 'Show it me,' says I,'an' mebbe I'll believe ye.' No, the cuss would only show it to the_Springbok;_ 'there's a reward,' says he. 'What's the price of a soulaboard your cutter?' I asked him. 'Have you parted with yours, as youwant to buy one?' says he. 'Not one as would carry me right slick away toeverlasting blazes,' says I. So then we said good-morning, and he boreaway for Valparaiso. Presently I saw your smoke, and that you would neveroverhaul old Stinkamalee on that track; so I came about. Now I tell _you_that old cuss knows where the gal is, and mebbe got her tied hand and futin his cabin. An' I'm kinder sot on English gals; they put me in mind ofbutter and honey. Why, my schooner is named after one. So now, cunule,clap on steam for Valparaiso, and you'll soon overhaul the old stink-pot.You may know him by the brown patch in his jib-sail, the ontidy varmint.Pull out your purse and bind him to drop lying about ducks and geese, andtell you the truth; he knows where your gal is, I swan. Wal, ye needn'tsmother me." For by this time he was the center of a throng, all pushingand driving to catch his words.Captain Moreland begged him to step down into his cabin, and there thegeneral thanked him with great warmth and agitation for his humanity. "Wewill follow your advice at once," he said. "Is there anything I can offeryou, without offense?""Wal," drawled the Yankee, "I guess not. Business an' sentiment won't mixnohow. Business took me to the island, sentiment brought me here. I'lltake a shake-hand all round. And if y' have got live fowls to spare, I'llbe obliged to you for a couple. Ye see I'm colonizing that darned island;an' sowing in with grain, an' Otaheitans, an' niggers, an' Irishmen, an'all the cream o' creation; an' I'd be glad of a couple o' Dorkins to crowthe lazy varmint up."This very moderate request was heartily complied with, and theacclamation and cheers of the crew followed this strange character to hisschooner, at which his eye glistened and twinkled with quietsatisfaction, but he made it a point of honor not to move a muscle.Before he could get under way, the _Springbok_ took a circuit, and,passing within a hundred yards of him, fired a gun to leeward by way ofcompliment, set a cloud of canvas, and tore through the water at herhighest speed. Outside the port of Valparaiso she fell in with Skinflint,and found him not quite so black as he was painted. The old fellow showedsome parental feeling, produced the bag at once to General Rolleston, andassured him a wearied duck had come on board, and his wife had detachedthe writing.They took in coal; and then ran westward once more, every heart beatinghigh with confident hope.CHAPTER XLVIII.HELEN'S act was strange, and demands a word of explanation. If she hadthought the steamboat was a strange vessel, she would have lighted thebonfire; if she had known her father was on board, she would have lightedit with joy. But Hazel, whose every word now was gospel, had said it wasArthur Wardlaw in that boat, searching for her.Still, so strong is the impulse in all civilized beings to get back tocivilization, that she went up that hill as honestly intending to lightthe bonfire as Hazel intended it to be lighted. But, as she went, hercourage cooled, and her feet began to go slowly, as her mind ran swiftlyforward to consequence upon consequence. To light that bonfire was tobring Arthur Wardlaw down upon herself and Hazel living alone and onintimate terms. Arthur would come and claim her to his face. Could shedisallow his claim? Gratitude would now be on his side as well as goodfaith. What a shock to Arthur! What torture for Hazel! torture that heforesaw, or why the face of anguish, that dragged even now at herheart-strings? And then it could end only in one way; she and Hazel wouldleave the island in Arthur's ship. What a voyage for all three! She stoodtransfixed by shame; her whole body blushed at what she saw coming. Thenonce more Hazel's face rose before her; poor crippled Hazel! her hero andher patient. She sat down and sighed, and could no more light the firethan she could have put it out if another had lighted it.She was a girl that could show you at times she had a father as well as amother. But that evening she was all woman.They met no more that night.In the morning his face was haggard, and showed a mental struggle; buthers placid and quietly beaming, for the very reason that she had made agreat sacrifice. She was one of that sort.And this difference between them was a foretaste.His tender conscience pricked him sore. To see her sit beaming there,when, if he had done his own duty with his own hands she would be on herway to England! Yet his remorse was dumb; for, if he gave it vent, thenhe must seem ungrateful to her for _her_ sacrifice.She saw his deep and silent compunction, approved it secretly; saidnothing, but smiled, and beamed, and soothed. He could not resist this;and wild thrills of joy and hope passed through him, visions of unbrokenbliss far from the world.But this sweet delirium was followed by misgivings of another kind. Andhere _she_ was at fault. What could they be?It was the voice of conscience telling him that he was really wining herlove, once inaccessible; and, if so, was bound to tell her his wholestory, and let her judge between him and the world, before she made anymore sacrifices for him. But it is hard to stop great happiness; harderto stop it and ruin it. Every night, as he lay alone, he said, "To-morrowI will tell her all, and make her the judge." But in the morning herbright face crushed his purpose by the fear of clouding it. His limbs gotstrong and his heart got weak. And they used to take walks, and her headcame near his shoulder. And the path of duty began to be set thicker thanever with thorns; and the path of love with primroses. One day she madehim sit to her for his portrait; and, under cover of artistic enthusiasm,told him his beard was godlike, and nothing in the world could equal itfor beauty. She never saw but one at all like it, poor Mr. Seaton's; buteven that was very inferior to his. And then she dismissed the sitter."Poor thing," said she, "you are pale and tired." And she began to useornaments; took her bracelets out of her bag, and picked pearls out ofher walls, and made a coronet, under which her eyes flashed at night withsuperlative beauty--conscious beauty brightened by the sense of beingadmired and looked at by the eye she desired to please.She revered him. He had improved her character, and she knew it, andoften told him so."Call me Hazelia," she said; "make me liker you still."One day, he came suddenly through the jungle, and found her reading herprayer-book.He took it from her, not meaning to be rude, neither, but inquisitive.It was open at the marriage-service, and her cheeks were dyed scarlet.His heart panted. He was a clergyman; he could read that service overthem both.Would it be a marriage?Not in England; but in some countries it would. Why not in this? This wasnot England.He looked up. Her head was averted; she was downright distressed.He was sorry to have made her blush; so he took her hand and kissed ittenderly, so tenderly that his heart seemed to go into his lips. Shethrilled under it, and her white brow sank upon his shoulder.The sky was a vault of purple with a flaming topaz in the center; thesea, a heavenly blue; the warm air breathed heavenly odors; flamingmacaws wheeled overhead; humming-birds, more gorgeous than any flower,buzzed round their heads, and amazed the eye with delight, then cooled itwith the deep green of the jungle into which they dived.It was a Paradise with the sun smiling down on it, and the ocean smilingup, and the air impregnated with love. Here they were both content now tospend the rest of their days--  "The world forgetting; by the world forgot."CHAPTER XLIX.THE _Springbok_ arrived in due course at longitude 103 deg. 31 min., butsaw no island. This was dispiriting; but still Captain Moreland did notdespair.He asked General Rolleston to examine the writing casefully, and tell himwas that Miss Rolleston's handwriting.The general shook his head sorrowfully. "No," said he; "it is nothinglike my child's hand.""Why, all the better," said Captain Moreland; "the lady has got somebodyabout her who knows a thing or two. The man that could catch wild ducksand turn 'em into postmen could hit on the longitude somehow; and hedoesn't pretend to be exact in the latitude."Upon this he ran northward four hundred miles; which took him three days;for they stopped at night.No island.He then ran south five hundred miles; stopping at night.No island.Then he took the vessel zigzag.Just before sunset, one lovely day, the man at the mast-head sang out:"On deck there!""Hullo!""Something in sight; on our weather-bow.""What is it?""Looks like a mast. No. Don't know what it is.""Point."The sailor pointed with his finger.Captain Moreland ordered the ship's course to be altered accordingly. Bythis time General Rolleston was on deck. The ship ran two miles on thenew course; and all this time the topman's glass was leveled, and thecrew climbed about the rigging all eyes and ears.At last the clear hail came down."I can make it out now, sir.""What is it?"It is a palm-tree."The captain jumped on a gun, and waved his hat grandly, and instantly thevessel rang with a lusty cheer; and, for once, sailors gabbled likewasherwomen.They ran till they saw the island in the moonlight, and the giant palm,black, and sculptured out of the violet sky; then they set the leadgoing, and it warned them not to come too close. They anchored off thewest coast.A daybreak they moved slowly on, still sounding as they went; and,rounding the West Point, General Rolleston saw written on the guanoedrocks in large letters  AN ENGLISH LADY WRECKED HERE.  HASTE TO HER RESCUE.He and Moreland shook hands; and how their eyes glistened!Presently there was a stranger inscription still upon the rocks--a roughoutline of the island on an enormous scale, showing the coast-line, thereefs, the shallow water, and the deep water."Ease her! Stop her!"The captain studied this original chart with his glass, and crept slowlyon for the west passage.But, warned by the soundings marked on the rock, he did not attempt to gothrough the passage, but came to an anchor, and lowered his boat.The sailors were all on the _qui vive_ to land, but the captain, to theirinfinite surprise, told them only three persons would land thatmorning--himself, his son, and General Rolleston.The fact is, this honest captain had got a misgiving, founded on ageneral view of human nature. He expected to find the girl with two orthree sailors, one of them united to her by some nautical ceremony, dulywitnessed, but such as a _military_ officer of distinction could hardlybe expected to approve. He got into the boat in a curious state ofdelight, dashed with uncomfortable suspense; and they rowed gently forthe west passage.As for General Rolleston, now it was he needed all his fortitude. Supposethe lady was not Helen! After all, the chances were against her beingthere. Suppose she was dead and buried in that island! Suppose that fataldisease, with which she had sailed, had been accelerated by hardships,and Providence permitted him only to receive her last sigh. All thesemisgivings crowded on him the moment he drew so near the object which hadlooked all brightness so long as it was unattainable. He sat pale andbrave in the boat; but his doubts and fears were greater than his hope.They rounded Telegraph Point, and in a moment Paradise Bay burst on them,and Hazel's boat within a hundred yards of them. It was half-tide. Theybeached the boat and General Rolleston landed. Captain Moreland graspedhis hand, and said, "Call us if it is all right."General Rolleston returned the pressure of that honest hand, and marchedup the beach just as if he was going into action.He came to the boat. It had an awning over the stern, and was clearlyused as a sleeping-place. A series of wooden pipes standing on uprightsled from this up to the cliff. The pipes were in fact mere sections ofthe sago-tree with the soft pith driven out. As this was manifestly atube of communication, General Rolleston followed it until he came to asort of veranda with a cave opening on it; he entered the cave, and wasdazzled by its most unexpected beauty. He seemed to be in a giganticnautilus. Roof and sides, and the very chimney, were one blaze ofmother-of-pearl. But, after the first start, brighter to him was an oldshawl he saw on a nail; for that showed it was a woman's abode. He toredown the old shawl and carried it to the light. He recognized it asHelen's. Her rugs were in a corner; he rushed in, and felt them all overwith trembling hands. They were still warm, though she had left her bedsome time. He came out wild with joy, and shouted to Moreland, "She isalive! She is alive! She is alive!" Then fell on his knees and thankedGod.A cry came down to him from above. He looked up as he knelt, and therewas a female figure dressed in white, stretching out its hands as if itwould fly down to him. Its eyes gleamed; he knew them all that way off.He stretched out his hands as eloquently, and then he got up to meet her;but the stout soldier's limbs were stiffer than of old; and he got up soslowly, that, ere he could take a step, there came flying to him, withlittle screams and inarticulate cries, no living skeleton, norconsumptive young lady, but a grand creature, tanned here and there, rosyas the morn, and full of lusty vigor; a body all health, strength, andbeauty, a soul all love. She flung herself all over him, in a moment,with cries of love unspeakable; and then it was, "Oh, my darling, mydarling! Oh, my own, own! Ha, ha, ha, ha! Oh, oh, oh, oh! Is it you? isit? can it? Papa! Papa!" then little convulsive hands patting him, andfeeling his beard and shoulders; then a sudden hail of violent kisses onhis head, his eyes, his arms, his hands, his knees. Then a stout soldier,broken down by this, and sobbing for joy. "Oh, my child! My flesh andblood! Oh, oh, oh!" Then all manhood melted away except paternity; and afather turned mother, and clinging, kissing and rocking to and fro withhis child, and both crying for joy as if their hearts would burst.A sight for angels to look down at and rejoice.But what mortal pen could paint it?CHAPTER L.THEY gave a long time to pure joy before either of them cared to putquestions or compare notes. But at last he asked her, "Who was on theisland besides her?""Oh," said she, "only my guardian angel. Poor Mr. Welch died the firstweek we were here."He parted the hair on her brow, and kissed it tenderly. "And who is yourguardian angel?""Why, you are now, my own papa; and well you have proved it. To think ofyour being the one to come, at your age!""Well, never mind me. Who has taken such care of my child?--this the sickgirl they frightened me about!""Indeed, papa, I was a dying girl. My very hand was wasted. Look at itnow; brown as a berry, but so plump; you owe that to him. And, papa, Ican walk twenty miles without fatigue. And so strong; I could take you upin my arms and carry, I know. But I am content to eat you." (A shower ofkisses.) "I hope you will like him.""My own Helen. Ah! I am a happy old man this day. What is his name?""Mr. Hazel. He is a clergyman. Oh, papa, I hope you _will_ like him, forhe has saved my life more than once. And then he has been so generous, sodelicate, so patient; for I used him very ill at first; and you will findmy character as much improved as my health; and all owing to Mr. Hazel.He is a clergyman; and, oh, so good, so humble, so clever, soself-denying! Ah! how can I ever repay him?""Well, I shall be glad to see this paragon, and shake him by the hand.You may imagine what I feel to any one that is kind to my darling. An oldgentleman? about my age?""Oh, no, papa""Hum!""If he had been old I should not be here; for he has had to fight for meagainst cruel men with knives; and work like a horse. He built me a hut,and made me this cave, and almost killed himself in my service. Poor Mr.Hazel!""How old is he?""Dearest papa, I never asked him that; but I think he is four or fiveyears older than me, and a hundred years better than I shall ever be, Iam afraid. What is the matter, darling?""Nothing, child, nothing.""Don't tell me. Can't I read your dear face?""Come, let me read yours. Look me in the face, now; full."He took her by the shoulders, firmly, but not the least roughly, andlooked straight into her hazel eyes. She blushed at this ordeal--blushedscarlet; but her eyes, pure as Heaven, faced his fairly, though with apuzzled look.He concluded this paternal inspection by kissing her on the brow. "I wasan old fool," he muttered."What do you say, dear papa?""Nothing, nothing. Kiss me again. Well, love, you had better find thisguardian angel of yours, that I may take him by the hand and give him afather's blessing, and make him some little return by carrying him hometo England along with my darling.""I'll call him, papa. Where can he be gone, I wonder?"She ran out to the terrace, and called:"Mr. Hazel! Mr. Hazel! I don't see him; but he can't be far off. Mr.Hazel!"Then she came back and made her father sit down; and she sat at his kneebeaming with delight."Ah, papa," said he, "it was you who loved me best in England. It was youthat came to look for me.""No," said he, "there are others there that love you as well in theirway. Poor Wardlaw! on his sickbed for you, cut down like a flower themoment he heard you were lost in the _Proserpine._ Ah, and I have brokenfaith.""That is a story," said Helen; "you couldn't.""For a moment, I mean; I promised the dear old man--he furnished theship, the men, and the money to find you. He says you are as much hisdaughter as mine.""Well, but what did you promise him?" said Helen, blushing andinterrupting hastily, for she could not bear the turn matters weretaking."Oh, only to give you the second kiss from Arthur. Come, better late thannever." She knelt before him and put out her forehead instead of herlips. "There," said the general, "that kiss is from Arthur Wardlaw, yourintended. Why, who the deuce is this?"A young man was standing wonder-struck at the entrance, and had heard thegeneral's last words; they went through him like a knife. GeneralRolleston stared at him.Helen uttered an ejaculation of pleasure, and said, "This is my dearfather, and he wants to thank you--""I don't understand this," said the general. "I thought you told me therewas nobody on the island but you and your guardian angel. Did you countthis poor fellow for nobody? Why, he did you a good turn once.""Oh, papa!" said Helen, reproachfully."Why, this is my guardian angel. This is Mr. Hazel."The general looked from one to another in amazement, then he said toHelen,"This your Mr. Hazel?""Yes, papa.""Why, you don't mean to tell me you don't know this man?""Know him, papa! why, of course I know Mr. Hazel; know him and reverehim, beyond all the world, except you."The general lost patience. "Are you out of your senses?" said he; "thisman here is no Hazel. Why, this is James Seaton--our gardener--aticket-of-leave man."CHAPTER LI.AT this fearful insult Helen drew back from her father with a cry ofdismay, and then moved toward Hazel with her hands extended, as if toguard him from another blow, and at the same time deprecate hisresentment. But then she saw his dejected attitude; and she stoodconfounded, looking from one to the other."I knew him in a moment by his beard," said the general coolly."Ah!" cried Helen, and stood transfixed. She glared at Hazel and hisbeard with dilating eyes, and began to tremble.Then she crept back to her father and held him tight; but still lookedover her shoulder at Hazel with dilating eyes and paling cheek.As for Hazel, his deportment all this time went far toward convictinghim; he leaned against the side of the cave and hung his head in silence,and his face was ashy pale. When General Rolleston saw his deep distress,and the sudden terror and repugnance the revelation seemed to create inhis daughter's mind, he felt sorry he had gone so far, and said: "Well,well; it is not for me to judge you harshly; for you have laid me under adeep obligation. And, after all, I can see good reasons why you shouldconceal your name from other people. But you ought to have told mydaughter the truth."Helen interrupted him; or, rather, she seemed unconscious he wasspeaking. She had never for an instant taken her eye off the culprit. Andnow she spoke to him."Who, and what are you, sir?""My name is Robert Penfold.""Penfold! Seaton!" cried Helen. "Alias upon alias!" And she turned to herfather in despair. Then to Hazel again. "Are you what papa says?""I am.""Oh, papa! papa!" cried Helen, "then there is no truth nor honesty in allthe world!" And she turned her back on Robert Penfold, and cried andsobbed upon her father's breast.Oh, the amazement and anguish of that hour! The pure affection andreverence that would have blessed a worthy man, wasted on a convict! Herheart's best treasures flung on a dunghill! This is a woman's greatestloss on earth. And Helen sank, and sobbed under it.General Rolleston, whose own heart was fortified, took a shallow view ofthe situation; and, moreover, Helen's face was hidden on his bosom; andwhat he saw was Hazel's manly and intelligent countenance pale anddragged with agony and shame."Come, come," he said, gently, "don't cry about it; it is not your fault.And don't be too hard on the man. You told me he had saved your life.""Would he had not!" said the sobbing girl."There, Seaton," said the general, "Now you see the consequences ofdeceit; it wipes out the deepest obligations." He resumed, in a differenttone, "But not with me. This is a woman; but I am a man, and know how abad man could have abused the situation in which I found you two.""Not worse than he has done," cried Helen."What do you tell me, girl!" said General Rolleston, beginning to tremblein his turn."What could he do worse than steal my esteem and veneration, and drag myheart's feelings in the dirt? Oh, where--where--can I ever look for aguide, instructor, and faithful friend, after this? He seemed all truth;and he is all a lie. The world is all a lie. Would I could leave it thismoment!""This is all romantic nonsense," said General Rolleston, beginning to beangry. "You are a little fool, and in your ignorance and innocence haveno idea how well this young fellow has behaved on the whole. I tell youthat, in spite of this one fault, I should like to shake him by the hand.I will, too; and then admonish him afterward.""You shall not. You shall not," cried Helen, seizing him almost violentlyby the arm. "You take him by the hand! A monster! How dare you steal intomy esteem? How dare you be a miracle of goodness, self-denial, learning,and every virtue that a lady might worship and thank God for, when allthe time you are a vile, convicted--""I'll thank you not to say that word," said Hazel, firmly."I'll call you what you are, if I choose," said Helen, defiantly. But forall that she did not do it. She said piteously, "What offense had I evergiven you? What crime had I ever committed, that you must make me thevictim of this diabolical deceit? Oh, sir, what powers of mind you havewasted to achieve this victory over a poor unoffending girl! What wasyour motive? What good could come of it to you? He won't speak to me. Heis not even penitent. Sullen and obstinate! He shall be taken to England,and well punished for it. Papa, it is your duty.""Helen," said the general, "you ladies are rather too fond of hitting aman when he is down. And you speak daggers, as the saying is; and thenwish you had bitten your tongue off sooner. You are my child, but you arealso a British subject; and, if you charge me on my duty to take this manto England and have him imprisoned, I must. But, before you go thatlength, you had better hear the whole story.""Sir," said Robert Penfold, quietly, "I will go back to prison thisminute, if she wishes it.""How dare you interrupt papa," said Helen, haughtily, but with a greatsob."Come, come," said the general, "be quiet, both of you, and let me say mysay." (To Robert.) "You had better turn your head away, for I am astraightforward man, and I'm going to show her you are not a villain, buta madman. This Robert Penfold wrote me a letter, imploring me to find himsome honest employment, however menial. That looked well, and I made himmy gardener. He was a capital gardener; but one fine day he caught sightof you. _You_ are a very lovely girl, though you don't seem to know it;and _he_ is a madman; and he fell in love with you." Helen uttered anejaculation of great surprise. The general resumed: "He can only haveseen you at a distance, or you would recognize him; but (really it islaughable) he saw you somehow, though you did not see him, and-- Well,his insanity hurt himself, and did not hurt you. You remember how hesuspected burglars, and watched night after night under your window. Thatwas out of love for you. His insanity took the form of fidelity andhumble devotion. He got a wound for his pains, poor fellow! and you madeArthur Wardlaw get him a clerk's place.""Arthur Wardlaw!" cried Seaton. "Was it to him I owed it?" and he groanedaloud.Said Helen: "He hates poor Arthur, his benefactor." Then to Penfold: "Ifyou are that James Seaton, you received a letter from me.""I did," said Penfold; and, putting his hand in his bosom, he drew out aletter and showed it her."Let me see it," said Helen."Oh, no! don't take this from me, too," said he, piteously.General Rolleston continued. "The day you sailed he disappeared; and I amafraid not without some wild idea of being in the same ship with you.This was very reprehensible. Do you hear, young man? But what is theconsequence? You get shipwrecked together, and the young madman takessuch care of you that I find you well and hearty, and calling him yourguardian angel. And--another thing to his credit--he has set his wits towork to restore you to the world. These ducks, one of which brings mehere? Of course it was he who contrived that, not you. Young man, youmust learn to look things in the face; this young lady is not of yoursphere, to begin; and, in the next place, she is engaged to Mr. ArthurWardlaw; and I am come out in his steamboat to take her to him. And asfor you, Helen, take my advice; think what most convicts are, compared tothis one. Shut your eyes entirely to his folly as I shall; and let youand I think only of his good deeds, and so make him all the return wecan. You and I will go on board the steamboat directly; and, when we arethere, we can tell Moreland there is somebody else on the island." Hethen turned to Penfold, and said: "My daughter and I will keep in theafter-part of the vessel, and anybody that likes can leave the ship atValparaiso. Helen, I know it is wrong; but what can I do?--I am so happy.You are alive and well; how can I punish or afflict a human creatureto-day? and, above all, how can I crush this unhappy young man, withoutwhom I should never have seen you again in this world? My daughter! mydear lost child!"And he held her at arm's length and gazed at her, and then drew her tohis bosom; and for him Robert Penfold ceased to exist, except as a manthat had saved his daughter."Papa," said Helen, after a long pause, "just make him tell why he couldnot trust to me. Why, he passed himself off to me for a clergyman.""I am a clergyman," said Robert Penfold."Oh!" said Helen, shocked to find him so hardened, as she thought. Shelifted her hands to heaven, and the tears streamed from her eyes. "Well,sir," said she, faintly, "I see I cannot reach your conscience. Onequestion more and then I have done with you forever. Why in all thesemonths that we have been alone, and that you have shown me the nature, Idon't say of an honest man, but of an angel--yes, papa, of an angel--whycould you not show me one humble virtue, sincerity? It belongs to a man.Why could you not say, 'I have committed one crime in my life, butrepented forever; judge by this confession, and by what you have seen ofme, whether I shall ever commit another. Take me as I am, and esteem meas a penitent and more worthy man; but I will not deceive you and passfor a paragon.' Why could you not say as much as this to me? If you lovedme, why deceive me so cruelly?"These words, uttered no longer harshly, but in a mournful, faint,despairing voice, produced an effect the speaker little expected. RobertPenfold made two attempts to speak, but though he opened his mouth, andhis lips quivered, he could get no word out. He began to choke withemotion; and, though he shed no tears, the convulsion that goes withweeping in weaker natures overpowered him in a way that was almostterrible."Confound it!" said General Rolleston, "this is monstrous of you, Helen;it is barbarous. You are not like your poor mother."She was pale and trembling, and the tears flowing; but she showed hernative obstinacy. She said hoarsely: "Papa, you are blind. He _must_answer me. He knows he must!""I must," said Robert Penfold, gasping still. Then he manned himself by amighty effort, and repeated with dignity, "I will."There was a pause while the young man still struggled for composure andself-command."Was I not often on the point of telling you my sad story? Then is itfair to say that I should never have told it you? But, oh, MissRolleston, you don't know what agony it may be to an unfortunate man totell the truth. There are accusations so terrible, so _defiling,_ that,when a man has proved them false, they still stick to him and soil him.Such an accusation I labor under, and a judge and a jury have branded me.If they had called me a murderer, I would have told you; but _that_ issuch a dirty crime. I feared the prejudices of the world. I dreaded tosee your face alter to me. Yes, I trembled, and hesitated, and askedmyself whether a man is bound to repeat a foul slander against himself,even when thirteen shallow men have said it, and made the lie law.""There," said General Rolleston, "I thought how it would be, Helen; youhave tormented him into defending himself, tooth and nail; so now weshall have the old story; he is innocent; I never knew a convict thatwasn't, if he found a fool to listen to him. I decline to hear anotherword. You needn't excuse yourself for changing your name; I excuse it,and that is enough. But the boat is waiting, and we can't stay to hearyou justify a felony.""I AM NOT A FELON. I AM A MARTYR."CHAPTER LII.ROBERT PENFOLD drew himself up to his full height and uttered thesestrange words with a sad majesty that was very imposing. But GeneralRolleston, steeled by experience of convicts, their plausibility andtheir histrionic powers, was staggered only for a moment. He deigned noreply; but told Helen that Captain Moreland was waiting for her, and shehad better go on board at once.She stood like a statue."No, papa, I'll not turn my back on him till I know whether he is a felonor a martyr.""My poor child, has he caught you at once with a clever phrase? A judgeand a jury have settled that.""They settled it as you would settle it, by refusing to hear me.""Have I refused to hear you?" said Helen. "What do I care for steamboatsand captains? If I stay here to all eternity, I'll know from your ownlips and your own face whether you are a felon or a martyr. It is nophrase, papa. He is a felon or a martyr; and I am a most unfortunategirl, or else a base, disloyal one.""Fiddle-dee," said General Rolleston, angrily. Then, looking at hiswatch: "I give you five minutes to humbug us in--if you can."Robert Penfold sighed patiently. But from that moment he ignored GeneralRolleston and looked to Helen only. And she fixed her eyes upon his facewith a tenacity and an intensity of observation that surpassed anythinghe had ever seen in his life. It dazzled him; but it did not dismay him."Miss Rolleston," said he, "my history can be told in the time myprejudiced judge allows me. I am a clergyman, and a private tutor atOxford. One of my pupils was--Arthur Wardlaw. I took an interest in himbecause my father, Michael Penfold, was in Wardlaw's employ. This ArthurWardlaw had a talent for mimicry; he mimicked one of the college officerspublicly and offensively, and was about to be expelled, and that wouldhave ruined his immediate prospects; for his father is just, but stern. Ifought hard for him, and, being myself popular with the authorities, Igot him off. He was grateful, or seemed to be, and we became greaterfriends than ever. We confided in each other. He told me he was in debtin Oxford, and much alarmed lest it should reach his father's ears, andlose him the promised partnership. I told him I was desirous to buy asmall living near Oxford which was then vacant; but I had only saved 400pounds, and the price was 1,000 pounds; I had no means of raising thebalance. Then he said, 'Borrow 2,000 pounds of my father; give mefourteen hundred of it, and take your own time to repay the 600 pounds. Ishall be my father's partner in a month or two,' said he; 'you can pay usback by instalments.' I thought this very kind of him. I did not want theliving for myself, but to give my dear father certain comforts andcountry air every week; he needed it; he was born in the country. Well, Icame to London about this business; and a stranger called on me, and saidhe came from Mr. Arthur Wardlaw, who was not well enough to come himself.He produced a note of hand for 2,000 pounds, signed John Wardlaw, andmade me indorse it, and told me where to get it cashed; he would comenext day for Arthur Wardlaw's share of the money. Well, I suspected noill; would you? I went and got the note discounted, and locked the moneyup. It was not my money; the greater part was Arthur Wardlaw's. That sameevening a policeman called, and asked several questions, which of courseI answered. He then got me out of the house on some pretense, andarrested me as a forger.""Oh!" cried Helen."I forgot the clergyman; I was a gentleman, and a man, insulted, and Iknocked the officer down directly. But his myrmidons overpowered me. Iwas tried at the Central Criminal Court on two charges. First, the Crown(as they call the attorney that draws the indictment) charged me withforging the note of hand; and then with not forging it, but passing it,well knowing that somebody else had forged it. Well, Undercliff, theexpert, swore positively that the forged note was not written by me; andthe Crown, as they call it, was defeated on that charge; but being proveda liar in a court of justice did not abash my accuser; the second chargewas pressed with equal confidence. The note, you are to understand, wasforged--that admits of no doubt; and I passed it; the question waswhether I passed it _knowing it to be forged._ How was that to bedetermined? And here it was that my own familiar friend, in whom Itrusted, destroyed me. Of course, as soon as I was put in prison, I wroteand sent to Arthur Wardlaw. Would you believe it? he would not come tome. He would not even write. Then, as the time drew near, I feared he wasa traitor. I treated him like one. I told my solicitor to drag him intocourt as my witness, and make him tell the truth. The clerk went downaccordingly, and found he kept his door always locked; but the clerkoutwitted him, and served him with the subpoena in his bedroom, before hecould crawl under the bed. But he baffled us at last; he never appearedin the witness-box; and when my counsel asked the court to imprison him,his father swore he could not come; he was dying, and all out of sympathywith me. Fine sympathy! that closed the lips, and concealed the truth;one syllable of which would have saved his friend and benefactor from acalamity worse than death. Is the truth poison, that to tell it makes asick man die? Is the truth hell, that a dying man refuses to speak it?How can a man die better than speaking the truth? How can he die worsethan withholding it? I believe his sickness and his death were lies likehimself. For want of one word from Arthur Wardlaw to explain that I hadevery reason to expect a note of hand from him, the jury condemned me.They were twelve honest but shallow men--invited to go inside anotherman's bosom, and guess what was there. They guessed that I knew andunderstood a thing which to this hour I neither know nor understand, byGod!"He paused a moment, then resumed:"I believe they founded their conjecture on my knocking down the officer.There was a reason for you! Why, forgers and their confederates arereptiles, and have no fight in them. Experience proves this. But thesetwelve men did not go by experience; they guessed, like babies, and,after much hesitation, condemned me; but recommended me to mercy. Mercy!What mercy did I deserve? Either I was innocent, or hanging was too goodfor me. No; in their hearts they doubted my guilt; and their doubt tookthat timid form instead of acquitting me. I was amazed at the verdict,and asked leave to tell the judge why Arthur Wardlaw had defied thecourt, and absented himself as my witness. Had the judge listened for oneminute, he would have seen I was innocent. But no. I was in England wherethe mouth of the accused is stopped, if he is fool enough to employcounsel. The judge stopped my mouth, as your father just now tried tostop it; and they branded me as a felon."Up to that moment my life was honorable and worthy. Since that moment Ihave never wronged a human creature. Men pass from virtue to vice, fromvice to crime; this is the ladder a soul goes down. But you are invitedto believe that I jumped from innocence into a filthy felony, and thenjumped back again none the worse, and was a gardener that fought for hisemployer, and a lover that controlled his passion. It is a lie--a liethat ought not to take in a child. But prejudice degrades a man below thelevel of a child. I'll say no more; my patience is exhausted by wrongsand insults. I am as honest a man as ever breathed; and the place wherewe stand is mine, for I made it. Leave it and me this moment. Go toEngland, and leave me where the animals, more reasonable than you, havethe sense to see my real character. I'll not sail in the same ship withany man, nor any woman either, who can look me in the face and take mefor a felon."He swelled and towered with the just wrath of an honest man driven tobay; and his eye shot black lightning. He was sublime.Helen cowered; but her spirited old father turned red, and said,haughtily: "We take you at your word, and leave you, you insolentvagabond! Follow me this instant, Helen!"And he marched out of the cavern in a fury.But, instead of following him, Helen stood stock-still, and cowered, andcowered till she seemed sinking forward to the ground, and she got holdof Robert Penfold's hand, and kissed it, and moaned over it."Martyr! Martyr!" she whispered, and still kissed his hand, like a slaveoffering her master pity, and asking pardon."Martyr! Martyr! Every word is true--true as my love."In this attitude, and with these words on her lips, they were surprisedby General Rolleston, who came back, astonished at his daughter notfollowing him. Judge of his amazement now."What does this mean?" he cried, turning pale with anger."It means that he has spoken the truth, and that I shall imitate him. Heis my martyr, and my love. When others cast shame on you, then it is timefor me to show my heart. James Seaton, I love you for your madness andyour devotion to her whom you had only seen at a distance. Ah! that waslove! John Hazel, I love you for all that has passed between us. What canany other man be to me?--or woman to you? But, most of all, I love you,Robert Penfold--my hero and my martyr. When I am told to your face thatyou are a felon, then to your face I say you are my idol, my hero, and mymartyr. Love! the word is too tame, too common. I worship you, I adoreyou! How beautiful you are when you are angry! How noble you are now youforgive me! for you do forgive me, Robert; you must, you shall. No; youwill not send your Helen away from you for her one fault so soonrepented! Show me you forgive me; show me you love me still, almost asmuch as I love you. He is crying. Oh, my darling, my darling, mydarling!" And she was round his neck in a moment, with tears and tenderkisses, the first she had ever given him.Ask yourself whether they were returned.A groan, or rather, we might say, a snort of fury, interrupted the mostblissful moment either of these young creatures had ever known. It camefrom General Rolleston, now white with wrath and horror."You villain!" he cried.Helen threw herself upon him, and put her hand before his mouth."Not a word more, or I shall forget I am your daughter. No one is toblame but I. I love him. I made him love me. He has been trying hard notto love me so much. But I am a woman; and could not deny myself the gloryand the joy of being loved better than woman was ever loved before. Andso I am; I am. Kill me, if you like; insult me, if you will. But not aword against him, or I give him my hand, and we live and die together onthis island. Oh, papa! he has often saved that life you value so; and Ihave saved his. He is all the world to me. Have pity on your child. Havepity on him who carries my heart in his bosom!"She flung herself on her knees, and strained him tight, and implored him,with head thrown back, and little clutching hands, and eloquent eyes.Ah! it is hard to resist the voice and look and clinging of a man's ownflesh and blood. Children are so strong--upon their knees. Their dearfaces, bright copies of our own, are just the height of our hearts then.The old man was staggered, was almost melted. "Give me a moment tothink," said he, in a broken voice. "This blow takes my breath away."Helen rose, and laid her head upon her father's shoulder, and stillpleaded for her love by her soft touch and her tears that now flowedfreely.He turned to Penfold with all the dignity of age and station. "Mr.Penfold," said he, with grave politeness, "after what my daughter hassaid, I must treat you as a man of honor, or I must insult her. Well,then, I expect you to show me you are what she thinks you, and are notwhat a court of justice has proclaimed you. Sir, this young lady isengaged with her own free will to a gentleman who is universallyesteemed, and has never been accused _to his face_ of any unworthy act.Relying on her plighted word, the Wardlaws have fitted out a steamer andsearched the Pacific, and found her. Can you, as a man of honor, adviseher to stay here and compromise her own honor in every way? Ought she tobreak faith with her betrothed on account of vague accusations madebehind his back?""It was only in self-defense I accused Mr. Arthur Wardlaw," said RobertPenfold.General Rolleston resumed:"You said just now there are accusations which soil a man. If you were inmy place, would you let your daughter marry a man of honor, who hadunfortunately been found guilty of a felony?"Robert groaned and hesitated, but he said, "No.""Then what is to be done? She must either keep her plighted word, or elsebreak it. For whom? For a gentleman she esteems and loves, but cannotmarry. A leper may be a saint; but I would rather bury my child thanmarry her to a leper. A convict may be a saint; but I'll kill her with myown hand sooner than she shall marry a convict. And in your heart andconscience you cannot blame me. Were you a father, you would do the same.What then remains for her and me but to keep faith? and what can you dobetter than leave her, and carry away her everlasting esteem and herfather's gratitude? It is no use being good by halves, or bad by halves.You must either be a selfish villain, and urge her to abandon all shame,and live here on this island with you forever, or you must be a brave andhonest man, and bow to a parting that is inevitable. Consider, sir; youreloquence and her pity have betrayed this young lady into a confessionthat separates you. Her enforced residence here with you has beeninnocent. It would be innocent no longer, now she has been so mad as toown she loves you. And I tell you frankly, if, after that confession, youinsist on going on board the steamer with her, I must take you; humanityrequires it; but, if I do, I shall hand you over to the law as a convictescaped before his time. Perhaps I ought to do so as it is; but that isnot certain; I don't know to what country this island belongs. I may haveno right to capture you in strange dominions; but an English ship isEngland--and if you set foot on the _Springbok_ you are lost. Now, then,you are a man of honor; you love my child truly, and not selfishly--youhave behaved nobly until to-day; go one step farther on the right road;call worldly honor and the God whose vows you have taken, sir, to youraid, and do your duty.""Oh, man, man!" cried Robert Penfold, "you ask more of me than flesh andblood can bear. What shall I say? What shall I do?"Helen replied, calmly: "Take my hand, and let us die together, since wecannot live together with honor."General Rolleston groaned. "For this, then, I have traversed one ocean,and searched another, and found my child. I am nothing to her--nothing.Oh, who would be a father!"He sat down oppressed with shame and grief, and bowed his stately head inmanly but pathetic silence."Oh, papa, papa!" cried Helen, "forgive your ungrateful child!" And shekneeled and sobbed, with her forehead on his knees.Then Robert Penfold, in the midst of his own agony, found room in thatgreat suffering heart of his for pity. He knelt down himself, and prayedfor help in this bitter trial. He rose haggard with the struggle, butlanguid and resigned, like one whose death-warrant has been read."Sir," said he, "there is but one way. You must take her home; and Ishall stay here.""Leave you all alone on this island!" said Helen. "Never! If you stayhere, I shall stay to comfort you.""I decline that offer. I am beyond the reach of comfort.""Think what you do, Robert," said Helen, with unnatural calmness. "If youhave no pity on yourself, have pity on us. Would you rob me of the verylife you have taken such pains to save? My poor father will carry nothingto England but my dead body. Long before we reach that country I loved sowell, and now hate it for its stupidity and cruelty to you, my soul willhave flown back to this island to watch over you, Robert. You bid me toabandon you to solitude and despair. Neither of you two love me half asmuch as I love you both."General Rolleston sighed deeply. "If I thought that--" said he. Then, ina faint voice, "My own courage fails me now. I look into my heart, and Isee that my child's life is dearer to me than all the world. She wasdying, they say. Suppose I send Moreland to the Continent for aclergyman, and marry you. Then you can live on this island forever. Onlyyou must let me live here, too; for I could never show my face again inEngland after acting so dishonorably. It will be a miserable end of alife passed in honor; but I suppose it will not be for long. Shame cankill as quickly as disappointed love.""Robert, Robert!" cried Helen, in agony.The martyr saw that he was master of the situation, and must be eitherbase or very noble--there was no middle way. He leaned his head on hishands, and thought with all his might."Hush!" said Helen. "He is wiser than we are. Let him speak.""If I thought you would pine and die upon the voyage, no power shouldpart us. But you are not such a coward. If my life depended on yours,would you not live?""You know I would.""When I was wrecked on White Water Island, you played the man. Not onewoman in a thousand could have launched a boat, and sailed it with aboat-hook for a mast, and--"Helen interrupted him. "It was nothing; I loved you. I love you betternow.""I believe it, and therefore I ask you to rise above your sex once more,and play the man for me. This time it is not my life you are to rescue,but that which is more precious still--my good name.""Ah! that would be worth living for!" cried Helen."You will find it very hard to do; but not harder for a woman than tolaunch a boat, and sail her without a mast. See my father, MichaelPenfold. See Undercliff, the expert. See the solicitor, the counsel. Siftthe whole story; and, above all, find out why Arthur Wardlaw dared notenter the witness-box. Be obstinate as a man; be supple as a woman; anddon't talk of dying when there is a friend to be rescued from dishonor byliving and working.""Die! while I can rescue you from death or dishonor! I will not be sobase. Ah, Robert, Robert, how well you know me!""Yes, I do know you, Helen. I believe that great soul of yours will keepyour body strong to do this brave work for him you love, and who lovesyou. And as for me, I am man enough to live for years upon this island,if you will only promise me two things.""I promise, then.""Never to die, and never to marry Arthur Wardlaw, until you have reversedthat lying sentence which has blasted me. Lay your hand on your father'shead, and promise me that."Helen laid her hand upon her father's head, and said: "I pledge my honornot to die, if life is possible, and never to marry any man, until I havereversed that lying sentence which has blasted the angel I love.""And I pledge myself to help her," said General Rolleston, warmly, "fornow I _know_ you are a man of honor. I have too often been deceived byeloquence to listen much to that. But now you have proved by your actionswhat you are. You pass a forged check, knowing it to be forged! I'd stakemy salvation it's a lie. There's my hand. God comfort you! God rewardyou, my noble fellow!""I hope He will, sir," sobbed Robert Penfold. "You are her father; andyou take my hand; perhaps that will be sweet to think of by and by; butno joy can enter my heart now; it is broken. Take her away at once, sir.Flesh is weak. My powers of endurance are exhausted."General Rolleston acted promptly on this advice. He rolled up her rugs,and the things she had made, and Robert had the courage to take them downto the boat. Then he came back, and the general took her bag to the boat.All this time the girl herself sat wringing her hands in anguish, and nota tear. It was beyond that now.As he passed Robert, the general said: "Take leave of her alone. I willcome for her in five minutes. You see how sure I feel you are a man ofhonor."When Robert went in, she rose and tottered to him, and fell on his neck.She saw it was the death-bed of their love, and she kissed his eyes, andclung to him. They moaned over each other, and clung to each other inmute despair.The general came back, and he and Robert took Helen, shivering andfainting, to the boat. As the boat put off, she awoke from her stupor,and put out her hands to Robert with one piercing cry.They were parted.CHAPTER LIII.IN that curious compound, the human heart, a respectable motive issometimes connected with a criminal act. And it was so with Joseph Wylie.He had formed an attachment to Nancy Rouse, and her price was twothousand pounds.This Nancy Rouse was a character. She was General Rolleston's servant formany years; her place was the kitchen. But she was a woman of suchrestless activity, and so wanting in the proper pride of a servant, thatshe would help a house-maid, or a lady's maid, or do anything almost,except be idle. To use her own words, she was one as couldn't abide tosit mum-chance. That fatal foe to domestic industry, the _LondonJournal,_ fluttered in vain down her area, for she could not read. Shesupported a sick mother out of her wages, aided by a few presents ofmoney and clothes from Helen Rolleston, who had a great regard for Nancy,and knew what a hard fight she had to keep a sick woman out of her twentypounds a year.In love, Nancy was unfortunate; her buxom looks and sterling virtues werebalanced by a provoking sagacity, and an irritating habit of speaking hermind. She humbled her lovers' vanity, one after another, and they fled.Her heart smarted more than once.Nancy was ambitious; and her first rise in life took place as follows:When the Rollestons went to Australia, she had a good cry at parting withHelen; but there was no help for it. She could not leave her mother.However, she told Helen she could not stomach any other service, and,since she must be parted, was resolved to better herself. This phrase issometimes drolly applied by servants, because they throw Independenceinto the scale. In Nancy's case it meant setting up as a washerwoman.Helen opened her hazel eyes with astonishment at this, the first round inthe ladder of Nancy's ambition; however, she gave her ten pounds, andthirty introductions, twenty-five of which missed fire, and with the oddfive Nancy set up her tub in the suburbs, and by her industry, genialityand frugality, got on tolerably well. In due course she rented a smallhouse backed by a small green, and advertised for a gentleman lodger. Shesoon got one; and soon got rid of him. However, she was never longwithout one.Nancy met Joseph Wylie in company. And, as sailors are brisk wooers, hesoon became her acknowledged suitor, and made some inroad into her heart,though she kept on the defensive, warned by past experience.Wylie's love-making had a droll feature about it; it was most of itcarried on in the presence of three washerwomen, because Nancy had notime to spare from her work, and Wylie had no time to lose in his wooing,being on shore for a limited period. And this absence of superfluousdelicacy on his part gave him an unfair advantage over thetallow-chandler's foreman, his only rival at present. Many a sly thrust,and many a hearty laugh, from his female auditors, greeted his amorouseloquence. But, for all that, they sided with him, and Nancy felt herimportance, and brightened along with her mates at the sailor's approach,which was generally announced by a cheerful hail. He was good company, touse Nancy's own phrase, and she accepted him as a sweetheart onprobation. But, when Mr. Wylie urged her to marry him, she demurred, andgave a string of reasons, all of which the sailor and his allies, thesubordinate washerwomen, combated in full conclave.Then she spoke out: "My lad, the washtub is a saddle as won't carrydouble. I've seen poverty enough in my mother's house; it shan't come inat my door to drive love out o' window. Two comes together with justenough for two; next year instead of two they are three, and one of thethree can't work and wants a servant extra, and by and by there is half adozen, and the money coming in at the spigot and going out at thebung-hole."One day, in the middle of his wooing, she laid down her iron, and said:"You come along with me. And I wonder how much work will be done while myback is turned, for you three gabbling and wondering what ever I'm agoing to do with this here sailor."She took Wylie a few yards down the street, and showed him a large housewith most of the windows broken. "There," said she, "there's a sight fora seafaring man. That's in Chancery.""Well, it's better to be there than in H--," said Wylie, meaning to besharper."Wait till you've tried 'em both," said Nancy.Then she took him to the back of the house, and showed him a large gardenattached to it."Now, Joseph," said she, "I've showed you a lodging-house and adrying-ground; and I'm a cook and a clear-starcher, and I'm wild to keeplodgers and do for 'em, washing and all. Then, if their foul linen goesout, they follows it. The same if they has their meat from the cook-shop.Four hundred pounds a year lies there a waiting for me. I've been at themoften to let me them premises. But they says no, we have got no horderfrom the court to let. Which the court would rather see 'em go to rackan' ruin for nothing, than let 'em to an honest woman as would pay therent punctual, and make her penny out of 'em, and nobody none the worse.And to sell them, the price is two thousand pounds, and if I had it I'dgive it this minit. But where are the likes of you and me to get twothousand pounds? But the lawyer he says, 'Miss Rouse, from _you_ onethousand down, and the rest on mortgige at forty-five pounds the year,'which it is dirt cheap, I say. So now, my man, when that house is mine,I'm yours. I'm putting by for it o' my side. If you means all you say,why not save a bit o' yours? Once I get that house and garden, youneedn't go to sea no more; nor you shan't. If I am to be bothered with aman, let me know where to put my finger on him at all hours, and not lieshivering and shaking at every window as creaks, and him out at sea. Andif you are too proud to drive the linen in a light cart, why, I could paya man." In short, she told him plainly she would not marry till she wasabove the world; and the road to above the world was through that greatbattered house and seedy garden in Chancery.Now it may appear a strange coincidence that Nancy's price to Wylie wastwo thousand pounds, and Wylie's to Wardlaw was two thousand pounds. Butthe fact is it was a forced coincidence. Wylie, bargaining with Wardlaw,stood out for two thousand pounds, because that was the price of thehouse and garden and Nancy.Now, when Wylie returned to England safe after his crime and his perils,he comforted himself with the reflection that Nancy would have her houseand garden, and he should have Nancy.But young Wardlaw lay on his sick bed; his father was about to return tothe office, and the gold disguised as copper was ordered up to thecellars in Fenchurch Street. There, in all probability, the contentswould be examined ere long, the fraud exposed, and other unpleasantconsequences might follow over and above the loss of the promised 2,000pounds.Wylie felt very disconsolate, and went down to Nancy Rouse depressed inspirits. To his surprise she received him with more affection than ever,and, reading his face in a moment, told him not to fret."It will be so in your way of life," said this homely comforter; "yoursort comes home empty-handed one day, and money in both pockets the next.I'm glad to see you home at all, for I've been in care about you. You'revery welcome, Joe. If you are come home honest and sober, why, that isthe next best thing to coming home rich."Wylie hung his head and pondered these words; and well he might, for hehad not come home either so sober or so honest as he went out, but quiteas poor.However, his elastic spirits soon revived in Nancy's sunshine, and hebecame more in love with her than ever.But when, presuming upon her affection, he urged her to marry him andtrust to Providence, she laughed in his face."Trust to himprovidence, you mean," said she; "no, no, Joseph. If you areunlucky, I must be lucky, before you and me can come together."Then Wylie resolved to have his 2,000 pounds at all risks. He had onegreat advantage over a landsman who has committed a crime. He couldalways go to sea and find employment, first in one ship, and then inanother. Terra firma was not one of the necessaries of life to him.He came to Wardlaw's office to feel his way, and talked guardedly toMichael Penfold about the loss of the _Proserpine._ His apparent objectwas to give information; his real object was to gather it. He learnedthat old Wardlaw was very much occupied with fitting out a steamer; thatthe forty chests of copper had actually come up from the _Shannon_ andwere under their feet at that moment, and that young Wardlaw wasdesperately ill and never came to the office. Michael had not at thattime learned the true cause of young Wardlaw's illness. Yet Wyliedetected that young Wardlaw's continued absence from the office gaveMichael singular uneasiness. The old man fidgeted, and washed the airwith his hands, and with simple cunning urged Wylie to go and see himabout the _Proserpine,_ and get him to the office, if it was only for anhour or two. "Tell him we are all at sixes and sevens, Mr. Wylie; all atsixes and sevens.""Well," said Wylie, affecting a desire to oblige, "give me a line to him;for I've been twice, and could never get in."Michael wrote an earnest line to say that Wardlaw senior had beenhitherto much occupied in fitting out the _Springbok,_ but that he wasgoing into the books next week. What was to be done?The note was received; but Arthur declined to see the bearer. Then Wylietold the servant it was Joseph Wylie, on a matter of life and death."Tell him I must stand on the staircase and hallo it out, if he won'thear it any other way."This threat obtained his admission to Arthur Wardlaw. The sailor foundhim on a sofa, in a darkened room, pale and worn to a shadow."Mr. Wardlaw," said Wylie, firmly, "you mustn't think I don't feel foryou; but, sir, we are gone too far to stop, you and me. There is twosides to this business; it is 150,000 pounds for you, and 2,000 poundsfor me, or it is--""What do I care for money now?" groaned Wardlaw. "Let it all go to theDevil, who tempted me to destroy her I loved better than money, betterthan all the world.""Well, but hear me out," said Wylie. "I say it is 150,000 pounds to youand 2,000 pounds to me, or else it is twenty years' penal servitude toboth on us.""Penal servitude!" And the words roused the merchant from his lethargylike a shower-bath."You know that well enough," said Wylie. "Why, 'twas a hanging matter afew years ago. Come, come, there are no two ways; you must be a man, orwe are undone."Fear prevailed in that timorous breast, which even love of money hadfailed to rouse. Wardlaw sat up, staring wildly, and asked Wylie what hewas to do."First, let me ring for a bottle of that old brandy of yours."The brandy was got. Wylie induced him to drink a wine-glassful neat, andthen to sit at the table and examine the sailors' declaration and thelogs. "I'm no great scholard," said he. "I warn't a going to lay thesebefore the underwriters till you had overhauled them. There, take anotherdrop now--'twill do you good--while I draw up this thundering blind."Thus encouraged and urged, the broken-hearted schemer languidly comparedthe seamen's declaration with the logs; and, even in his feeble state ofmind and body, made an awkward discovery at once."Why, they don't correspond!" said he."What don't correspond?""Your men's statement and the ship's log. The men speak of one heavy galeafter another, in January, and the pumps going; but the log says, 'A puffof wind from the N.E.' And, here again, the entry exposes yourexaggeration. One branch of our evidence contradicts the other; thiscomes of trying to prove too much. You must say the log was lost, wentdown with the ship.""How can I?" cried Wylie. "I have told too many I had got it safe athome.""Why did you say that? What madness!""Why were you away from your office at such a time? How can I knoweverything and do everything? I counted on you for the head-work ashore.Can't ye think of any way to square the log to that part of our tale?might paste in a leaf or two, eh?""That would be discovered at once. You have committed an irremediableerror. What broad strokes this Hudson makes. He must have written withthe stump of a quill."Wylie received this last observation with a look of contempt for the mindthat could put so trivial a question in so great an emergency."Are you quite sure poor Hudson is dead?" asked Wardlaw, in a low voice."Dead! Don't I tell you I saw him die!" said Wylie, trembling all of asudden.He took a glass of brandy, and sent it flying down his throat."Leave the paper with me," said Arthur, languidly, "and tell Penfold I'llcrawl to the office to-morrow. You can meet me there; I shall see nobodyelse."Wylie called next day at the office, and was received by Penfold, who hadnow learned the cause of Arthur's grief, and ushered the visitor in tohim with looks of benevolent concern. Arthur was seated like a lunatic,pale and motionless; on the table before him was a roast fowl and asalad, which he had forgotten to eat. His mind appeared to alternatebetween love and fraud; for, as soon as he saw Wylie, he gave himself asort of shake and handed Wylie the log and the papers."Examine them; they agree better with each other now."Wylie examined the log, and started with surprise and superstitiousterror. "Why, Hiram's ghost has been here at work!" said he. "It is hisvery handwriting.""Hush!" said Wardlaw; "not so loud. Will it do?""The writing will do first-rate; but any one can see this log has neverbeen to sea."Inspired by the other's ingenuity, he then, after a moment's reflection,emptied the salt-cellar into a plate, and poured a little water over it.He wetted the leaves of the log with this salt water, and dog's-eared thewhole book.Wardlaw sighed. "See what expedients we are driven to," said he. He thentook a little soot from the chimney, and mixed it with salad oil. Heapplied some of this mixture to the parchment cover, rubbed it off, andby such manipulation gave it a certain mellow look, as if it had beenused by working hands.Wylie was armed with these materials, and furnished with money to keephis sailors to their tale, in case of their being examined.Arthur begged, in his present affliction, to be excused from goingpersonally into the matter of the _Proserpine;_ and said that Penfold hadthe ship's log, and the declaration of the survivors, which the insurerscould inspect, previously to their being deposited at Lloyd's.The whole thing wore an excellent face, and nobody found a peg to hangsuspicion on so far.After this preliminary, and the deposit of the papers, nothing washurried; the merchant, absorbed in his grief, seemed to be forgetting toask for his money. Wylie remonstrated; but Arthur convinced him they werestill on too ticklish ground to show any hurry without excitingsuspicion.And so passed two weary months, during which Wylie fell out of NancyRouse's good graces, for idling about doing nothing."Be you a waiting for the plum to fall into your mouth, young man?" saidshe.The demand was made on the underwriters, and Arthur contrived that itshould come from his father. The firm was of excellent repute and hadpaid hundreds of insurances, without a loss to the underwriters. The_Proserpine_ had foundered at sea; several lives had been lost, and ofthe survivors one had since died, owing to the hardships he had endured.All this betokened a genuine calamity. Nevertheless, one ray of suspicionrested on the case at first. The captain of the _Proserpine_ had lost agreat many ships; and, on the first announcement, one or two wereresolved to sift the matter on that ground alone. But when fiveeye-witnesses, suppressing all mention of the word "drink," declared thatCaptain Hudson had refused to leave the vessel, and described his goingdown with the ship, from an obstinate and too exalted sense of duty,every chink was closed; and, to cut the matter short, the insurance moneywas paid to the last shilling, and Benson, one of the small underwriters,ruined. Nancy Rouse, who worked for Mrs. Benson, lost eighteen shillingsand sixpence, and was dreadfully put out about it.Wylie heard her lamentations, and grinned; for now his 2,000 pounds wasas good as in his pocket, he thought. Great was his consternation whenArthur told him that every shilling of the money was forestalled, andthat the entire profit of the transaction was yet to come; viz., by thesale of the gold dust."Then sell it," said Wylie."I dare not. The affair must cool down before I can appear as a seller ofgold; and even then I must dribble it out with great caution. ThankHeaven, it is no longer in those cellars.""Where is it, then?""That is my secret. You will get your two thousand all in good time; and,if it makes you one-tenth part as wretched as it has made me, you willthank me for all these delays."At last Wylie lost all patience, and began to show his teeth; and thenArthur Wardlaw paid him his two thousand pounds in forty crisp notes.He crammed them into a side pocket, and went down triumphant to NancyRouse. Through her parlor window he saw the benign countenance of MichaelPenfold. He then remembered that Penfold had told him some time beforethat he was going to lodge with her as soon as the present lodger shouldgo.This, however, rather interrupted Wylie's design of walking in andchucking the two thousand pounds into Nancy's lap. On the contrary, heshoved them deeper down in his pocket, and resolved to see the oldgentleman to bed, and then produce his pelf, and fix the wedding-day withNancy.He came in and found her crying, and Penfold making weak efforts toconsole her. The tea-things were on the table, and Nancy 's cup halfemptied.Wylie came in, and said, "Why, what is the matter now?"He said this mighty cheerfully, as one who carried the panacea for allills in his pocket, and a medicine peculiarly suited to Nancy Rouse'sconstitution. But he had not quite fathomed her yet.As soon as ever she saw him she wiped her eyes, and asked him, grimly,what he wanted there. Wylie stared at the reception; but replied stoutly,that it was pretty well known by this time what he wanted in thatquarter."Well, then," said Nancy, "Want will be your master. Why did you nevertell me Miss Helen was in that ship? my sweet, dear mistress as was, thatI feel for like a mother. You left her to drown, and saved your own greatuseless carcass, and drowned she is, poor dear. Get out o' my sight, do.""It wasn't my fault, Nancy," said Wylie, earnestly. "I didn't know whoshe was, and I advised her to come with us; but she would go with thatparson chap.""What parson chap? What a liar you be! She is Wardlaw's sweetheart, anddon't care for no parsons. If you didn't know you was to blame, whydidn't you tell me a word of your own accord? You kep' dark. Do you callyourself a man, to leave my poor young lady to shift for herself?""She had as good a chance to live as I had," said Wylie, sullenly."No, she hadn't; you took care o' yourself. Well, since you are so fondof yourself, keep yourself _to_ yourself, and don't come here no more.After this, I hate the sight on ye. You are like the black dog in myeyes, and always will be. Poor, dear Miss Helen! Ah, I cried when sheleft--my mind misgave me; but little I thought she would perish in thesalt seas, and all for want of a man in the ship. If you had gone outagain after in the steamboat--Mr. Penfold have told me all about it--I'dbelieve you weren't so much to blame. But no; lolloping and looking aboutall day for months. There's my door, Joe Wylie; I can't cry comfortablebefore you as had a hand in drowning of her. You and me is partedforever. I'll die as I am, or I'll marry a _man;_ which you ain't one,nor nothing like one. Is he waiting for you to hold the door open, Mr.Penfold? or don't I speak plain enough? Them as I gave the sack to aforeyou didn't want so much telling.""Well, I'm going," said Wylie, sullenly. Then, with considerable feeling,"This is hard lines."But Nancy was inexorable, and turned him out, with the 2,000 pounds inhis pocket.He took the notes out of his pocket, and flung them furiously down in thedirt.Then he did what everybody does under similar circumstances, he pickedthem up again, and pocketed them, along with the other dirt they hadgathered.Next day he went down to the docks and looked out for a ship; he soon gotone, and signed as second mate. She was to sail in a fortnight.But, before a week was out, the banknotes had told so upon him that hewas no longer game to go to sea. But the captain he had signed with was aTartar, and not to be trifled with. He consulted a knowing friend, andthat friend advised him to disguise himself till the ship had sailed.Accordingly he rigged himself out with a long coat, and a beard, andspectacles, and hid his sea-slouch as well as he could, and changed hislodgings. Finding he succeeded so well, he thought he might as well havethe pleasure of looking at Nancy Rouse, if he could not talk to her. Sohe actually had the hardihood to take the parlor next door; and by thismeans he heard her move about in her room, and caught a sight of her atwork on her little green; and he was shrewd enough to observe she did notsing and whistle as she used to do. The dog chuckled at that. Hisbank-notes worried him night and day. He was afraid to put them in abank; afraid to take them about with him into his haunts; afraid to leavethem at home; and out of this his perplexity arose some incidents worthrelating in their proper order.Arthur Wardlaw returned to business; but he was a changed man. All zestin the thing was gone. His fraud set him above the world; and that wasnow enough for him, in whom ambition was dead, and, indeed, nothing leftalive in him but deep regrets.He drew in the horns of speculation, and went on in the old safe routine;and to the restless activity that had jeopardized the firm succeeded astrange torpidity. He wore black for Helen, and sorrowed without hope. Hefelt he had offended Heaven, and had met his punishment in Helen's death.Wardlaw senior retired to Elmtrees, and seldom saw his son. When they didmeet, the old man sometimes whispered hope, but the whisper was faint andunheeded.One day Wardlaw senior came up express, to communicate to Arthur a letterfrom General Rolleston, written at Valparaiso. In this letter, GeneralRolleston deplored his unsuccessful search; but said he was goingwestward, upon the report of a Dutch whaler, who had seen an islandreflected in the sky, while sailing between Juan Fernandez and NorfolkIsle.Arthur only shook his head with a ghastly smile. "She is in heaven," saidhe, "and I shall never see her again, not here or hereafter."Wardlaw senior was shocked at this speech; but he made no reply. Hepitied his son too much to criticise the expressions into which hisbitter grief betrayed him. He was old, and had seen the triumphs of timeover all things human, sorrow included. These, however, as yet, had donenothing for Arthur Wardlaw. At the end of six months, his grief was assomber and as deadly as the first week.But one day, as this pale figure in deep mourning sat at his table, goinglistlessly and mechanically through the business of scraping moneytogether for others to enjoy, whose hearts, unlike his, might not be inthe grave, his father burst in upon him, with a telegram in his hand, andwaved it over his head in triumph."She is found! she is found!" he roared. "Read that!" and thrust thetelegram into his hands.Those hands trembled, and the languid voice rose into shrieks ofastonishment and delight, as Arthur read the words, "We have got her,alive and well. Shall be at Charing Cross Hotel, 8 P. M."CHAPTER LIV.WHILE the boat was going to the _Springbok,_ General Rolleston whisperedto Captain Moreland; and what he said may be almost guessed from whatoccurred on board the steamer soon afterward. Helen was carried tremblinginto the cabin, and the order was given to heave the anchor and get underway. A groan of disappointment ran through the ship; Captain Morelandexpressed the general's regret to the men, and divided two hundred poundsupon the capstan; and the groan ended in a cheer.As for Helen's condition, that was at first mistaken for ill health. Sheburied herself for two whole days in her cabin; and from that place faintmoans were heard now and then. The sailors called her the sick lady.Heaven knows what she went through in that forty-eight hours.She came upon deck at last in a strange state of mind and body; restless,strung up, absorbed. The rare vigor she had acquired on the island cameout now with a vengeance. She walked the deck with briskness, and apertinacity that awakened admiration in the crew at first, but by and bysuperstitious awe. For, while the untiring feet went briskly to and froover leagues and leagues of plank every day, the great hazel eyes wereturned inward, and the mind, absorbed with one idea, skimmed the men andthings about her listlessly.She had a mission to fulfill, and her whole nature was stringing itselfup to do the work.She walked so many miles a day, partly from excitement, partly with adeliberate resolve to cherish her health and strength; "I may want themboth," said she, "to clear Robert Penfold." Thought and high purposeshone through her so, that after a while nobody dared trouble her muchwith commonplaces. To her father, she was always sweet and filial, butsadly cold compared with what she had always been hitherto. He was takingher body to England, but her heart stayed behind upon that island. He sawthis, and said it."Forgive me," said she, coldly; and that was all her reply.Sometimes she had violent passions of weeping; and then he would endeavorto console her; but in vain. They ran their course, and were succeeded bythe bodily activity and concentration of purpose they had interrupted fora little while.At last, after a rapid voyage, they drew near the English coast; and thenGeneral Rolleston, who had hitherto spared her feelings, and been mostindulgent and considerate, felt it was high time to come to anunderstanding with her as to the course they should both pursue."Now, Helen," said he, "about the Wardlaws!"Helen gave a slight shudder. But she said, after a slight hesitation,"Let me know your wishes.""Oh, mine are not to be too ungrateful to the father, and not to deceivethe son.""I will not be ungrateful to the father, nor deceive the son," saidHelen, firmly.The general kissed her on the brow, and called her his brave girl. "But,"said he, "on the other hand, it must not be published that you have beenfor eight months on an island alone with a convict. Anything sooner thanthat. You know the malice of your own sex; if one woman gets hold ofthat, you will be an outcast from society."Helen blushed and trembled. "Nobody need be told that but Arthur; and Iam sure he loves me well enough not to injure me with the world.""But he would be justified in declining your hand, after such arevelation.""Quite. And I hope he will decline it when he knows I love another,however hopelessly.""You are going to tell Arthur Wardlaw all that?""I am.""Then all I can say is, you are not like other women.""I have been brought up by a man.""If I was Arthur Wardlaw, it would be the last word you should ever speakto me.""If you were Arthur Wardlaw, I should be on that dear island now.""Well, suppose his love should be greater than his spirit, and--""If he does not go back when he hears of my hopeless love, I don't seehow I can. I shall marry him; and try with all my soul to love him. I'llopen every door in London to Robert Penfold; except one; my husband's.And that door, while I live, he shall never enter. Oh, my heart; myheart!" She burst out sobbing desperately. And her father laid her headupon his bosom, and sighed deeply, and asked himself how all this wouldend.Before they landed, her fortitude seemed to return; and of her own accordshe begged her father to telegraph to the Wardlaws."Would you not like a day to compose yourself, and prepare for thistrying interview?" said he."I should. But it is mere weakness. And I must cure myself of myweakness, or I shall never clear Robert Penfold. And then, papa, I thinkof you. If old Mr. Wardlaw heard you had been a day in town, you mightsuffer in his good opinion. We shall be in London at seven. Ask them ateight. That will be one hour's respite. God help me, and strengthen poorArthur to bear the blow I bring him!"Long before eight o'clock that day, Arthur Wardlaw had passed from astate of somber misery and remorse to one of joy, exultation and unmixedhappiness. He no longer regretted his crime, nor the loss of the_Proserpine._ Helen was alive and well, and attributed not her danger,but only her preservation, to the Wardlaws.Wardlaw senior kept his carriage in town, and precisely at eight o'clockthey drove up to the door of the hotel.They followed the servant with bounding hearts, and rushed into the roomwhere the general and Helen stood ready to receive them. Old Wardlaw wentto the general with both hands out, and so the general met him, andbetween these two it was almost an embrace. Arthur ran to Helen withcries of joy and admiration, and kissed her hands again and again, andshed such genuine tears of joy over them that she trembled all over andwas obliged to sit down. He kneeled at her feet, and still imprisoned onehand, and mumbled it, while she turned her head away and held her otherhand before her face to hide its real expression, which was a mixture ofpity and repugnance. But, as her face was hidden, and her eloquent bodyquivered, and her hand was not withdrawn, it seemed a sweet picture offeminine affection to those who had not the key.At last she was relieved from a most embarrassing situation by oldWardlaw; he cried out on this monopoly, and Helen instantly darted out ofher chair, and went to him, and put up her cheek to him, which he kissed;and then she thanked him warmly for his courage in not despairing of herlife, and his goodness in sending out a ship for her.Now, the fact is, she could not feel grateful; but she knew she ought tobe grateful, and she was ashamed to show no feeling at all in return forso much; so she was eloquent, and the old gentleman was naturally verymuch pleased at first; but he caught an expression of pain on Arthur'sface, and then he stopped her. "My dear," said he, "you ought to thankArthur, not me; it is his love for you which was the cause of my zeal. Ifyou owe me anything, pay it to him, for he deserves it best. He nearlydied for you, my sweet girl. No, no, you mustn't hang your head for that,neither. What a fool I am to revive old sorrows! Here we are, thehappiest four in England." Then he whispered to her, "Be kind to poorArthur, that is all I ask. His very life depends on you."Helen obeyed this order, and went slowly back to Arthur; she sat, cold asice, on the sofa beside him, and he made love to her. She scarcely heardwhat he said; she was asking herself how she could end this intolerableinterview, and escape her father's looks, who knew the real state of herheart.At last she rose, and went and whispered to him: "My courage has failedme. Have pity on me, and get me away. It is the old man; he kills me."General Rolleston took the hint, and acted with more tact than one wouldhave given him credit for. He got up and rang the bell for tea. Then hesaid to Helen, "You don't drink tea now, and I see you are excited morethan is good for you. You had better go to bed.""Yes, papa," said Helen.She took her candle, and, as she passed young Wardlaw, she told him, in alow voice, she would be glad to speak to him alone to-morrow."At what hour?" said he eagerly."When you like. At one."And so she retired, leaving him in ecstasies. This was the firstdownright assignation she had ever made with him.They met at one o'clock; he radiant as the sun, and a rose in hisbutton-hole; she sad and somber, and with her very skin twitching at thethought of the explanation she had to go through.He began with amorous commonplaces; she stopped him, gravely."Arthur," said she, "you and I are alone now, and I have a confession tomake. Unfortunately, I must cause you pain--terrible pain. Oh, my heartflinches at the wound I am going to give you; but it is my fate either towound you or to deceive you."During this preamble, Arthur sat amazed rather than alarmed. He did notinterrupt her, though she paused, and would gladly have been interrupted,since an interruption is an assistance in perplexities."Arthur, we suffered great hardships on the boat, and you would have lostme but for one person. He saved my life again and again; I saved his uponthe island. My constancy was subject to trials--oh such trials! So greatan example of every manly virtue forever before my eyes! My gratitude andmy pity eternally pleading! England and you seemed gone forever. Makeexcuses for me if you can. Arthur--I--I have formed an attachment."In making this strange avowal she hung her head and blushed, and thetears ran down her cheeks. But we suspect they ran for _him,_ and not forArthur.Arthur turned deadly sick at this tremendous blow, dealt with so soft ahand. At last he gasped out, "If you marry him, you will bury me.""No, Arthur," said Helen, gently; "I could not marry him, even if youwere to permit me. When you know more, you will see that, of us threeunhappy ones, you are the least unhappy. But, since this is so, am Iwrong to tell you the truth, and leave you to decide whether ourengagement ought to continue? Of course, what I have owned to youreleases you.""Releases me! but it does not unbind my heart from yours," cried Arthur,in despair.Then his hysterical nature came out, and he was so near fainting awaythat Helen sprinkled water on his temples, and applied eau-de-cologne tohis nostrils, and murmured, "Poor, poor Arthur! Oh, was I born only toafflict those I esteem?"He saw her with the tears of pity in her eyes, and he caught her hand,and said, "You were always the soul of honor; keep faith with me, and Iwill cure you of that unhappy attachment.""What! Do you hold me to my engagement after what I have told you?""Cruel Helen! you know I have not the power to hold you.""I am not cruel; and you have the power. But oh, think! For your ownsake, not mine.""I have thought; and this attachment to a man you cannot marry is a meremisfortune--yours as well as mine. Give me your esteem until your lovecomes back, and let our engagement continue.""It was for you to decide," said Helen, coldly, "and you have decided.There is one condition I must ask you to submit to.""I submit to it.""What, before you hear it?""Helen, you don't know what a year of misery I have endured, ever sincethe report came of your death. My happiness is cruelly dashed now, butstill it is great happiness by comparison. Make your conditions. You aremy queen, as well as my love and my life."Helen hesitated. It shocked her delicacy to lower the man she hadconsented to marry."Oh, Helen," said Arthur, "anything but secrets between you and me. Go onas you have begun, and let me know the worst at once.""Can you be very generous, Arthur?--generous to him who has caused you somuch pain?""I'll try," said Arthur, with a groan."I would not marry him, unless you gave me up. For I am your betrothed,and you are true to me. I _could_ not marry him, even if I were notpledged to you; but it so happens, I can do him one great service withoutinjustice to you; and this service I have vowed to do before I marry. Ishall keep that vow, as I keep faith with you. He has been driven fromsociety by a foul slander; that slander I am to sift and confute. It willbe long and difficult; but I shall do it; and you could help me if youchose. But that I will not be so cruel as to ask."Arthur bit his lip with jealous rage; but he was naturally cunning, andhis cunning showed him there was at present but one road to Helen'sheart. He quelled his torture as well as he could, and resolved to takethat road. He reflected a moment, and then he said:"If you succeed in that, will you marry me next day?""I will, upon my honor.""Then I will help you.""Arthur, think what you say. Women have loved as unselfishly as this; butno man, that ever I heard of.""No man ever did love a woman as I love you. Yes, I would rather helpyou, though with a sore heart, than hold aloof from you. What have we todo together?""Did I not tell you?--to clear his character of a foul stigma, andrestore him to England, and to the world which he is so fitted to adorn.""Yes, yes," said Arthur; "but who is it? Why do I ask, though? He must bea stranger to me.""No stranger at all," said Helen; "but one who is almost as unjust to youas the world has been to him;" then, fixing her eyes full on him, shesaid, "Arthur, it is your old friend and tutor, Robert Penfold."CHAPTER LV.ARTHUR WARDLAW was thunderstruck; and for some time sat stupidly staringat her. And to this blank gaze succeeded a look of abject terror, whichseemed to her strange and beyond the occasion. But this was not all; for,after glaring at her with scared eyes and ashy cheeks a moment or two, hegot up and literally staggered out of the room without a word.He had been taken by surprise, and, for once, all his arts had failedhim.Helen, whose eyes had never left his face, and had followed his retiringfigure, was frightened at the weight of the blow she had struck; andstrange thoughts and conjectures filled her mind. Hitherto, she had feltsure Robert Penfold was under a delusion as to Arthur Wardlaw, and thathis suspicions were as unjust as they certainly were vague. Yet now, atthe name of Robert Penfold, Arthur turned pale, and fled like a guiltything. This was a coincidence that confirmed her good opinion of RobertPenfold, and gave her ugly thoughts of Arthur. Still, she was one veryslow to condemn a friend, and too generous and candid to condemn onsuspicion; so she resolved as far as possible to suspend her unfavorablejudgment of Arthur, until she should have asked him why this greatemotion, and heard his reply.Moreover, she was no female detective, but a pure creature bent onclearing innocence. The object of her life was, not to discover thefaults of Arthur Wardlaw, or any other person, but to clear RobertPenfold of a crime. Yet Arthur's strange behavior was a great shock toher; for here, at the very outset, he had somehow made her feel she musthope for no assistance from him. She sighed at this check, and askedherself to whom she should apply first for aid. Robert had told her tosee his counsel, his solicitor, his father, and Mr. Undercliff, anexpert, and to sift the whole matter.Not knowing exactly where to begin, she thought she would, after all,wait a day or two to give Arthur time to recover himself, and decidecalmly whether he would co-operate with her or not.In this trying interval, she set up a diary--for the first time in herlife; for she was no egotist. And she noted down what we have justrelated, only in a very condensed form, and wrote at the margin:_Mysterious._Arthur never came near her for two whole days. This looked grave. On thethird day she said to General Rolleston:"Papa, _you_ will help me in the good cause--will you not?"He replied that he would do what he could, but feared that would belittle."Will you take me down to Elmtrees, this morning?""With all my heart."He took her down to Elmtrees. On the way she said: "Papa, you must let meget a word with Mr. Wardlaw alone.""Oh, certainly. But, of course, you will not say a word to hurt hisfeelings.""Oh, papa!""Excuse me. But, when a person of your age is absorbed with one idea, shesometimes forgets that other people have any feelings at all."Helen kissed him meekly, and said that was too true; and she would beupon her guard.To General Rolleston's surprise, his daughter no sooner saw old Wardlawthan she went--or seemed to go--into high spirits, and was infinitelyagreeable.But at last she got him all to herself, and then she turned suddenlygrave, and said:"Mr. Wardlaw, I want to ask you a question. It is something about RobertPenfold."Wardlaw shook his head. "That is a painful subject, my dear. But what doyou wish to know about that unhappy young man?""Can you tell me the name of the counsel who defended him at the trial?""No, indeed, I cannot.""But perhaps you can tell me where I could learn that.""His father is in our office still; no doubt he could tell you."Now, for obvious reasons, Helen did not like to go to the office; so sheasked faintly if there was nobody else who could tell her."I suppose the solicitor could.""But I don't know who was the solicitor," said Helen, with a sigh."Hum!" said the merchant. "Try the bill-broker. I'll give you hisaddress;" and he wrote it down for her.Helen did not like to be too importunate, and she could not bear to letWardlaw senior know she loved anybody better than his son; and yet someexplanation was necessary. So she told him, as calmly as she could, thather father and herself were both well acquainted with Robert Penfold, andknew many things to his credit."I am glad to hear that," said Wardlaw; "and I can believe it. He bore anexcellent character here, till, in an evil hour, a strong temptationcame, and he fell.""What! You think he was guilty?""I do. Arthur, I believe, has his doubts still. But he is naturallyprejudiced in his friend's favor. And, besides, he was not at the trial;I was.""Thank you, Mr. Wardlaw," said Helen, coldly; and within five minutes shewas on her way home."Arthur prejudiced in Robert Penfold's favor!" That puzzled herextremely.She put down the whole conversation while her memory was fresh. She addedthis comment: "What darkness I am groping in!"Next day she went to the bill-broker, and told him Mr. Wardlaw senior hadreferred her to him for certain information.Wardlaw's name was evidently a passport. Mr. Adams said obsequiously,"Anything in the world I can do, madam.""It is about Mr. Robert Penfold. I wish to know the name of the counselhe had at his trial.""Robert Penfold! What, the forger?""He was accused of that crime," said Helen, turning red."Accused, madam! He was convicted. I ought to know; for it was my partnerhe tried the game on. But I was too sharp for him. I had him arrestedbefore he had time to melt the notes; indicted him, and sent him acrossthe herring pond, in spite of his parson's coat, the rascal!"Helen drew back as if a serpent had stung her."It was you who had him transported!" cried she, turning her eyes on himwith horror."Of course it was me," said Mr. Adams, firing up; "and I did the countrygood service. I look upon a forger as worse than a murderer. What is thematter? You are ill."The poor girl was half fainting at the sight of the man who had destroyedher Robert, and owned it."No, no," she cried, hastily; "let me get away--let me get away fromhere-you cruel, cruel man!"She tottered to the door, and got to her carriage, she scarcely knew how,without the information she went for.The bill-broker was no fool; he saw now how the land lay; he followed herdown the stairs, and tried to stammer excuses."Charing Cross Hotel," said she faintly, and laid her face against thecushion to avoid the sight of him.When she got home, she cried bitterly at her feminine weakness and herincapacity; and she entered this pitiable failure in her journal with aseverity our male readers will hardly, we think, be disposed to imitate;and she added, by way of comment: "Is this how I carry out my poorRobert's precept: Be obstinate as a man; be supple as a woman?"That night she consulted her father on this difficulty, so slight to anybut an inexperienced girl. He told her there must be a report of thetrial in the newspapers, and the report would probably mention thecounsel; she had better consult a file.Then the thing was where to find a file. After one or two failures, theBritish Museum was suggested. She went thither, and could not get in toread without certain formalities. While these were being complied with,she was at a stand-still.That same evening came a line from Arthur Wardlaw:"DEAREST HELEN--I hear from Mr. Adams that you desire to know the nameof the counsel who defended Robert Penfold. It was Mr. Tollemache. He haschambers in Lincoln's Inn."Ever devotedly yours,"ARTHUR WARDLAW."Helen was touched with this letter, and put it away indorsed with a fewwords of gratitude and esteem; and copied it into her diary, andremarked: "This is one more warning not to judge hastily. Arthur'sagitation was probably only great emotion at the sudden mention of onewhose innocence he believes, and whose sad fate distresses him." Shewrote back and thanked him sweetly, and in terms that encouraged a visit.Next day she went to Mr. Tollemache. A seedy man followed her at adistance. Mr. Tollemache was not at his chambers, nor expected till fouro'clock. He was in court. She left her card, and wrote on it in pencilthat she would call at four.She went at ten minutes after four. Mr. Tollemache declined, through hisclerk, to see her if she was a client; he could only be approached by hersolicitor. She felt inclined to go away and cry; but this time sheremembered she was to be obstinate as a man and supple as a woman. Shewrote on a card: "I am not a client of Mr. Tollemache, but a lady deeplyinterested in obtaining some information, which Mr. Tollemache can withperfect propriety give me. I trust to his courtesy as a gentleman not torefuse me a short interview.""Admit the lady," said a sharp little voice.She was ushered in, and found Mr. Tollemache standing before the fire."Now, madam, what can I do for you?""Some years ago you defended Mr. Robert Penfold; he was accused offorgery.""Oh, was he? I think I remember something about it. A banker'sclerk--wasn't he?""Oh, no, sir. A clergyman.""A clergyman? I remember it perfectly. He was convicted.""Do you think he was guilty, sir?""There was a strong case against him.""I wish to sift that case.""Indeed. And you want to go through the papers.""What papers, sir?""The brief for the defense.""Yes," said Helen, boldly, "would you trust me with that, sir? Oh, if youknew how deeply I am interested!" The tears were in her lovely eyes."The brief has gone back to the solicitor, of course. I dare say he willlet you read it upon a proper representation.""Thank you, sir. Will you tell me who is the solicitor, and where helives?""Oh, I can't remember who was the solicitor. That is the very first thingyou ought to have ascertained. It was no use coming to me.""Forgive me for troubling you, sir," said Helen, with a deep sigh."Not at all, madam; I am only sorry I cannot be of more service. But dolet me advise you to employ your solicitor to make these preliminaryinquiries. Happy to consult with him, and re-open the matter should hediscover any fresh evidence." He bowed her out, and sat down to a briefwhile she was yet in sight.She turned away heart-sick. The advice she had received was good; but sheshrank from baring her heart to her father's solicitor.She sat disconsolate awhile, then ordered another cab, and drove toWardlaw's office. It was late, and Arthur was gone home; so, indeed, waseverybody, except one young subordinate, who was putting up the shutters."Sir," said she, "can you tell me where old Mr. Penfold lives?""Somewhere in the subbubs, miss.""Yes, sir; but where?""I think it is out Pimlico way.""Could you not give me the street? I would beg you to accept a present ifyou could."This sharpened the young gentleman's wits; he went in and groped here andthere till he found the address, and gave it her: No. 3, FairfieldCottages, Primrose Lane, Pimlico. She gave him a sovereign, to hisinfinite surprise and delight, and told the cabman to drive to the hotel.The next moment the man who had followed her was chatting familiarly withthe subordinate, and helping him to put up the shutters."I say, Dick," said the youngster, "Penfolds is up in the market; aduchess was here just now, and gave me a soy, to tell her where he lived.Wait a moment till I spit on it for luck."The agent, however, did not wait to witness that interesting ceremony. Hewent back to his hansom round the corner, and drove at once to ArthurWardlaw's house with the information.Helen noted down Michael Penfold's address in her diary, and would havegone to him that evening, but she was to dine _tete-a-tete_ with herfather.Next day she went down to 3 Fairfield Cottages at half past four. On theway her heart palpitated, for this was a very important interview. Hereat least she might hope to find some clew, by following out which shewould sooner or later establish Robert's innocence. But then came afearful thought: "Why had not his father done this already, if it waspossible to do it? His father must love him. His father must have heardhis own story, and tested it in every way. Yet his father remained theservant of a firm, the senior partner of which had told her to her faceRobert was guilty."It was a strange and terrible enigma. Yet she clung to the belief thatsome new light would come to her from Michael Penfold. Then came bashfulfears. "How should she account to Mr. Penfold for the interest she tookin his own son, she who was affianced to Mr. Penfold's employer." Shearrived at 3 Fairfield Cottages with her cheeks burning, and repeating toherself: "Now is the time to be supple as a woman but obstinate as aman."She sent the cabman in to inquire for Mr. Penfold; a sharp girl of aboutthirteen came out to her, and told her Mr. Penfold was not at home."Can you tell me when he will be at home?""No, miss. He have gone to Scotland. A telegraphum came from Wardlaws'last night, as he was to go to Scotland first thing this morning; and hewent at six o'clock.""Oh, dear! How unfortunate!""Who shall I say called, miss?""Thank you, I will write. What time did the telegram come?""Between five and six last evening, miss."She returned to the hotel. Fate seemed to be against her. Baffled at thevery threshold! At the hotel she found Arthur Wardlaw's card and abeautiful bouquet.She sat down directly, and wrote to him affectionately, and asked him inthe postscript if he could send her a report of the trial. She received areply directly, that he had inquired in the office, for one of the clerkshad reports of it; but this clerk was unfortunately out, and had lockedup his desk.Helen sighed. Her feet seemed to be clogged at every step in thisinquiry.Next morning, however, a large envelope came for her, and a Mr. Handwrote to her thus:"MADAM--Having been requested by Mr. Arthur Wardlaw to send you myextracts of a trial, the Queen _v._ Penfold, I herewith forward the same,and would feel obliged by your returning them at your convenience."Your obedient servant,"JAMES HAND."Helen took the inclosed extracts to her bedroom, and there read them bothover many times.In both these reports the case for the Crown was neat, clear, cogent,straight-forward, and supported by evidence. The defense was chieflyargument of counsel to prove the improbability of a clergyman and a manof good character passing a forged note. One of the reports stated thatMr. Arthur Wardlaw, a son of the principal witness, had taken theaccusation so much to heart that he was now dangerously ill at Oxford.The other report did not contain this, but, on the other hand, it statedthat the prisoner, after conviction, had endeavored to lay the blame onMr. Arthur Wardlaw, but that the judge had stopped him, and said he couldonly aggravate his offense by endeavoring to cast a slur upon theWardlaws, who had both shown a manifest desire to shield him, but werepowerless for want of evidence.In both reports the summing up of the judge was moderate in expression,but leaned against the prisoner on every point, and corrected thesophistical reasoning of his counsel very sensibly. Both reports said anexpert was called for the prisoner, whose ingenuity made the court smile,but did not counterbalance the evidence. Helen sat cold as ice with theextracts in her hand.Not that her sublime faith was shaken, but that poor Robert appeared tohave been so calmly and fairly dealt with by everybody. Even Mr.Hennessy, the counsel for the Crown, had opened the case with humaneregret, and confined himself to facts, and said nobody would be morepleased than he would, if this evidence could be contradicted, orexplained in a manner consistent with the prisoner's innocence.What a stone she had undertaken to roll--up what a hill!What was to be her next step? Go to the Museum, which was now open toher, and read more reports? She shrank from that."The newspapers are all against him," said she; "and I don't want to betold he is guilty, when I know he is innocent."She now re-examined the extracts with a view to names, and found the onlynames mentioned were those of the counsel. The expert's name was notgiven in either. However, she knew that from Robert. She resolved tospeak to Mr. Hennessy first, and try and get at the defendant's solicitorthrough him.She found him out by the Law Directory, and called at a few minutes pastfour.Hennessy was almost the opposite to Tollemache. He was about the size ofa gentleman's wardrobe; and, like most enormous men, good-natured. Hereceived her, saw with his practiced eye that she was no common person,and, after a slight hesitation on professional grounds, heard herrequest. He sent for his note-book, found the case in one moment,remastered it in another, and told her the solicitor for the Crown inthat case was Freshfleld."Now," said he, "you want to know who was the defendant's solicitor?Jenkins, a stamped envelope. Write your name and address on that."While she was doing it, he scratched a line to Mr. Freshfield, asking himto send the required information to the inclosed address.She thanked Mr. Hennessy with the tears in her eyes."I dare not ask you whether you think him guilty," she said.Hennessy shook his head with an air of good-natured rebuke."You must not cross-examine counsel," said he. "But, if it will be anycomfort to you, I'll say this much, there was just a shadow of doubt, andTollemache certainly let a chance slip. If I had defended your friend, Iwould have insisted on a postponement of the trial until this ArthurWardlaw" (looking at his note-book) "could be examined, either in courtor otherwise, if he was really dying. Is he dead, do you know?""No.""I thought not. Sick witnesses are often at death's door; but I neverknew one pass the threshold. Ha! ha! The trial ought to have beenpostponed till he got well. If a judge refused me a postponement in sucha case, I would make him so odious to the jury that the prisoner wouldget a verdict in spite of his teeth.""Then you think he was badly defended?""No; that is saying a great deal more than I could justify. But there arecounsel who trust too much to their powers of reasoning, and underrate achink in the evidence pro or con. Practice, and a few back-falls, curethem of that."Mr. Hennessy uttered this general observation with a certain change oftone, which showed he thought he had said as much or more than hisvisitor had any right to expect from him; and she therefore left him,repeating her thanks. She went home, pondering on every word he had said,and entered it all in her journal, with the remark: "How strange! thefirst doubt of Robert's guilt comes to me from the lawyer who caused himto be found guilty. He calls it the shadow of a doubt."That very evening, Mr. Freshfield had the courtesy to send her bymessenger the name and address of the solicitor who had defended RobertPenfold, Lovejoy & James, Lincoln's Inn Fields. She called on them, andsent in her card. She was kept waiting a long time in the outer office,and felt ashamed, and sick at heart, seated among young clerks. At lastshe was admitted, and told Mr. Lovejoy she and her father, GeneralRolleston, were much interested in a late client of his, Mr. RobertPenfold; and would he be kind enough to let her see the brief for thedefense?"Are you a relation of the Penfolds, madam?""No, sir," said Helen blushing."Humph!" said Lovejoy. He touched a hand-bell. A clerk appeared."Ask Mr. Upton to come to me." Mr. Upton, the managing clerk, came in duecourse, and Mr. Lovejoy asked him:"Who instructed us in the Queen _v._ Penfold?""It was Mr. Michael Penfold, sir." Mr. Lovejoy then told Helen that shemust just get a line from Mr. Michael Penfold, and then the papers shouldbe submitted to her."Yes; but, sir," said Helen, "Mr. Penfold is in Scotland.""Well, but you can write to him.""No; I don't know in what part of Scotland he is.""Then you are not very intimate with him.""No, sir; my acquaintance is with Mr. Robert Penfold.""Have you a line from _him?"_"I have no _written_ authority from him; but will you not take my wordthat I act by his desire?""My dear madam," said the lawyer, "we go by rule. There are certain formsto be observed in these things. I am sure your own good sense will tellyou it would be cruel and improper of me to submit those papers withoutan order from Robert or Michael Penfold. Pray consider this as a delay,not a refusal.""Yes, sir," said Helen; "but I meet with nothing but delays, and my heartis breaking under them."The solicitor looked sorry, but would not act irregularly. She went homesighing, and condemned to wait the return of Michael Penfold.The cab door was opened for her by a seedy man she fancied she had seenbefore.Baffled thus, and crippled in every movement she made, however slight, infavor of Robert Penfold, she was seduced on the other hand into all theinnocent pleasures of the town. Her adventure had transpired somehow orother, and all General Rolleston's acquaintances hunted him up; and bothfather and daughter were courted by people of ton as lions. A shipwreckedbeauty is not offered to society every day. Even her own sex raved abouther, and about the chain of beautiful pearls she had picked up somehow onher desolate island. She always wore them; they linked her to that sacredpurpose she seemed to be forgetting. Her father drew her with him intothe vortex, hiding from her that he embarked in it principally for hersake, and she went down the current with him out of filial duty. Thusunfathomable difficulties thrust her back from her up-hill task. And theworld, with soft but powerful hand, drew her away to it. Arthur broughther a choice bouquet, or sent her a choice bouquet, every evening, butotherwise did not intrude much upon her; and though she was sure he wouldassist her, if she asked him, gratitude and delicacy forbade her to callhim again to her assistance. She preferred to await the return of MichaelPenfold. She had written to him at the office to tell him she had news ofhis son, and begged him to give her instant notice of his return fromScotland.Day after day passed, and he did not write to her. She began to chafe,and then to pine. Her father saw, and came to a conclusion that hermarriage with Arthur ought to be hastened. He resolved to act quietly butfirmly toward that end.CHAPTER LVI.UP to this time Helen's sex, and its attributes, had been a greatdisadvantage to her. She had been stopped on the very threshold of herinquiry by petty difficulties which a man would have soon surmounted. Butone fine day the scale gave a little turn, and she made a littlediscovery, thanks to her sex. Women, whether it is that they are born tobe followed, or are accustomed to be followed, seem to have eyes in thebacks of their heads, and instinct to divine when somebody is after them.This inexperienced girl, who had missed seeing many things our readershave seen, observed in merely passing her window a seedy man in thecourtyard of the hotel. Would you believe it, she instantly recognizedthe man who had opened her cab door for her in Lincoln's Inn Fields.Quick as lightning it passed through her mind, "Why do I see the samefigure at Lincoln's Inn Fields and at Charing Cross?" At variousintervals she passed the window; and twice she saw the man again. Shepondered, and determined to try a little experiment. Robert Penfold, itmay be remembered, had mentioned an expert as one of the persons she wasto see. She had looked for his name in the Directory; but experts werenot down in the book. Another fatality! But at last she had foundUndercliff, a lithographer, and she fancied that must be the same person.She did not hope to learn much from him; the newspapers said his evidencehad caused a smile. She had a distinct object in visiting him, the natureof which will appear. She ordered a cab, and dressed herself. She camedown, and entered the cab; but, instead of telling the man to drive, shegave him a slip of paper, containing the address of the lithographer."Drive there," said she, a little mysteriously. The cabman winked,suspecting an intrigue, and went off to the place. There she learned Mr.Undercliff had moved to Frith Street, Soho, number not known. She toldthe cabman to drive slowly up and down the street, but could not find thename. At last she observed some lithographs in a window. She let thecabman go all down the street, then stopped him, and paid him off. Shehad no sooner done this than she walked very briskly back, and enteredthe little shop, and inquired for Mr. Undercliff. He was out, and notexpected back for an hour. "I will wait," said Helen; and she sat downwith her head upon her white hand. A seedy man passed the window rapidlywith a busy air. And, if his eye shot a glance into the shop, it was soslight and careless nobody could suspect he was a spy and had done hiswork effectually as he flashed by. In that moment the young lady, throughthe chink of her fingers, which she had opened for that purpose, not onlyrecognized the man, but noticed his face, his hat, his waistcoat, hisdirty linen, and the pin in his necktie."Ah!" said she, and flushed to the brow.She lifted up her head and became conscious of a formidable old woman,who was standing behind the counter at a side door, eying her with theseverest scrutiny. This old woman was tall and thin, and had a fine face,the lower part of which was feminine enough; but the forehead and browswere alarming. Though her hair was silvery, the brows were black andshaggy, and the forehead was divided by a vertical furrow into twotemples. Under those shaggy eyebrows shone dark gray eyes that passed forblack with most people; and those eyes were fixed on Helen, reading her.Helen's light hazel eyes returned their gaze. She blushed, and, stilllooking, said, "Pray, madam, can I see Mr. Undercliff?""My son is out for the day, miss," said the old lady civilly."Oh, dear! how unfortunate I am!" said Helen, with a sigh."He comes back to-night. You can see him to-morrow at ten o'clock. Aquestion of handwriting?""Not exactly," said Helen; "but he was witness in favor of a person Iknow was innocent.""But he was found guilty," said the other, with cool frankness."Yes, madam. And he has no friend to clear him but me, a poor weak girl,baffled and defeated whichever way I turn." She began to cry.The old woman looked at her crying, with that steady composure whichmarks her sex on these occasions; and, when she was better, said quietly,"You are not so weak as you think." She added, after a while, "If youwish to retain my son, you had better leave a fee.""With pleasure, madam. What is the fee?""One guinea. Of course, there is a separate charge for any work he may dofor you.""That is but reasonable, madam." And with this she paid the fee, and roseto go."Shall I send any one home with you?""No, thank you," said Helen. "Why?""Because you are followed, and because you are not used to be followed.""Why, how did you find that out?""By your face, when a man passed the window--a shabby-genteel fellow; hewas employed by some gentleman, no doubt. Such faces as yours will befollowed in London. If you feel uneasy, miss, I will put on my bonnet andsee you home."Helen was surprised at this act of substantial civility from the Gorgon."Oh, thank you, Mrs. Undercliff," said she. "No, I am not the leastafraid. Let them follow me, I am doing nothing that I am ashamed of.Indeed, I am glad I am thought worth the trouble of following. It showsme I am not so thoroughly contemptible. Good-by, and many thanks. Teno'clock to-morrow."And she walked home without looking once behind her till the hotel was insight; then she stopped at a shop window, and in a moment her swift eyeembraced the whole landscape. But the shabby-genteel man was nowhere insight.CHAPTER LVII.WHEN Joseph Wylie disappeared from the scene, Nancy Rouse made adiscovery which very often follows the dismissal of a suitor--that shewas considerably more attached to him than she had thought. The housebecame dull, the subordinate washerwomen languid; their taciturnityirritated and depressed Nancy by turns.In the midst of this, Michael Penfold discovered that Helen had come backsafe. He came into her parlor, beaming with satisfaction, and told her ofthe good news. It gave her immense delight at first. But, when she hadgot used to her joy on that score, she began to think she had used JoeWylie very ill. Now that Helen was saved, she could no longer realizethat Wylie was so very much to blame.She even persuaded herself that his disappearance was the act of a justlyoffended man; and, as he belonged to a class of whose good sense she hada poor opinion, she was tormented with fears that he would do somedesperate act--drown himself, or go to sea; or, worst of all, marry sometrollop. She became very anxious and unhappy. Before this misfortune sheused to go about singing the first verse of a song, and whistling thenext, like any plowboy; an eccentric performance, but it made the housegay. Now both song and whistle were suspended! and, instead, it was allhard work and hard crying; turn about.She attached herself to Michael Penfold because he had known trouble, andwas sympathetic. And these two opened their hearts to one another, andformed a friendship that was very honest and touching.The scene of their conversation and mutual consolation was Nancy'sparlor; a little mite of a room she had partitioned off from herbusiness. "For," said she, "a lady I'll be--after my work is done--if itis only in a cupboard." The room had a remarkably large fireplace, whichhad originally warmed the whole floor, but now was used as a ventilatoronly. The gas would have been stifling without it. As for lighting a firein it, that was out of the question.On a certain evening, soon after Mr. Penfold's return from Scotland, thepair sat over their tea, and the conversation fell on the missingsweetheart. Michael had been thinking it over, and was full ofencouragement. He said:"Miss Rouse, something tells me that, if poor Mr. Wylie could only knowyour heart, he would turn up again directly. What we ought to do is tosend somebody to look for him in all the sailors' haunts--some sharpfellow-- Dear me, what a knocking they keep up next door!""Oh, that is always the way when one wants a quiet chat. Drat the woman!I'll have her indicted.""No, you won't, Miss Rouse. She is a poor soul, and has got no businessexcept letting lodgings; she is not like you. But I do hope she will beso kind as not to come quite through the wall.""Dear heart!" said Nancy, "go on, and never mind her noise, which it isworse than a horgan-grinder.""Well, then, if you can't find him that way, I say--Advertise.""Me!" cried Nancy, turning very red. "Do I look like a woman as wouldadvertise for a man?""No, ma'am. Quite the reverse. But what I mean is, you might put insomething not too plain. For instance: If J. W. will return to N. R., allwill be forgotten and forgiven.""He'd have the upper hand of me for life," said Nancy. "No, no; I won'tadvertise for the fool. What right had he to run off at the first word?He ought to know my bark is worse than my bite by this time. You can,though.""Me bite, ma'am?" said the old gentleman."Bite? no. Advertise, since you're so fond of it. Come, you sit down andwrite one; and I'll pay for it, for that matter."Michael sat down, and drew up the following: "If Mr. Joseph Wylie willcall on Michael Penfold, at No. 3 E. C., he will hear of something to hisadvantage.""To his advantage?" said Nancy, doubtfully. "Why not tell him the truth?""Why, that is the truth, ma'am. Isn't it to his advantage to bereconciled to an honest, virtuous, painstaking lady, that honors him withher affection--and me with her friendship? Besides, it is the commonform; and there is nothing like sticking to form.""Mr. Penfold," said Nancy, "any one can see you was born a gentleman; andI am a deal prouder to have you and your washing than I should him aspays you your wages. Pale eyes--pale hair--pale eyebrows--I wouldn'ttrust him to mangle a duster.""Oh, Miss Rouse! Pray don't disparage my good master to me.""I can't help it, sir. Thought is free, especially in this herecompartment. Better speak one's mind than die o' the sulks. So shut yourear when my music jars. But one every other day is enough. If he won'tcome back for that, why, he must go, and I must look out for another;there's as good fish in the sea as ever came out of it. Still, I'll notdeny I have a great respect for poor Joe. Oh, Mr. Penfold, what shall Ido! Oh, oh, oh!""There, there," said Michael, "I'll put this into the _Times_ every day.""You are a good soul, Mr. Penfold. Oh--oh, oh!"When he had finished the advertisement in a clerkly hand, and she hadfinished her cry, she felt comparatively comfortable, and favored Mr.Penfold with some reflections."Dear heart, Mr. Penfold, how you and I do take to one another, to besure. But so we ought; for we are honest folk, the pair, and has had ahard time. Don't it never strike you rather curious that two thousandpounds was at the bottom of both our troubles, yourn and mine? I mighthave married Joe, and been a happy woman with him; but the Devil puts inmy head-- There you go again hammering! Life ain't worth having next doorto that lodging-house. Drat the woman, if she must peck, why don't she goin the churchyard and peck her own grave; which we shall never be quiettill she is there. And these here gimcrack houses, they won't stand nomore pecking at than a soap-sud. Ay, that's what hurts me, Mr. Penfold.The Lord had given him and me health and strength and honesty; ourbetters had wed for love and wrought for money, as the saying is; but Imust go again Nature, that cried 'Come couple'; and must bargain for twothousand pounds. So now I've lost the man, and not got the money, nornever shall. And, if I had, I'd burn-- Ah--ah--ah--ah--ah!"This tirade ended in stifled screams of terror, caused by the suddenappearance of a human hand, in a place and in a manner well adapted toshake the stoutest laundress's nerves.This hand came through the brick-work of the chimney-place, and thereremained a moment or two. Then slowly retired, and as it retiredsomething was heard to fall upon the shavings and tinsel of thefireplace.Nancy, by a feminine impulse, put her hands before her face, to hide thissupernatural hand; and, when she found courage to withdraw them, andglare at the place, there was no aperture whatever in the brick-work;and, consequently, the hand appeared to have traversed the solidmaterial, both coming and going."Oh, Mr. Penfold," cried Nancy; "I'm a sinful woman. This comes oftalking of the Devil arter sunset;" and she sat trembling so that thevery floor shook.Mr. Penfold's nerves were not strong. He and Nancy both huddled togetherfor mutual protection, and their faces had not a vestige of color left inthem.However, after a period of general paralysis, Penfold whispered:"I heard it drop something on the shavings.""Then we shall be all in a blaze o' brimstone," shrieked Nancy, wringingher hands.And they waited to see.Then, as no conflagration took place, Mr. Penfold got up, and said hemust go and see what it was the hand had dropped.Nancy, in whom curiosity was beginning to battle with terror, let him goto the fireplace without a word of objection, and then cried out:"Don't go anigh it, sir; it will do you a mischief; don't touch, itwhatever. _Take the tongs."_He took the tongs, and presently flung into the middle of the room asmall oilskin packet. This, as it lay on the ground, they both eyed liketwo deer glowering at a piece of red cloth, and ready to leap back overthe moon if it should show signs of biting. But oil-skin is notpreternatural, nor has tradition connected it, however remotely, with theEnemy of man.Consequently, a great revulsion took place in Nancy, and she passed fromfear to indignation at having been frightened so.She ran to the fireplace, and, putting her head up the chimney, screamed,"Heave your dirt where you heave your love, ye Brazen!"While she was objurgating her neighbor, whom, with feminine justice, sheheld responsible for every act done in her house, Penfold undid thepacket, and Nancy returned to her seat, with her mind more at ease, toexamine the contents."Bank-notes!" cried Penfold."Ay," said Nancy incredulously, "they do look like bank-notes, and feellike 'em; but they ain't wrote like them. Bank-notes ain't wrote blacklike that in the left-hand corner."Penfold explained."Ten-pound notes are not, nor fives; but large notes are. These are allfifties.""Fifty whats?""Fifty pounds.""What, each of them bits of paper worth fifty pounds?""Yes. Let us count them; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,15, 16, 17, 18--Oh, Lord!--20. Why, that is two thousand pounds--just twothousand pounds. It is the very sum that ruined me; it did not belong tome, and it's being in the house ruined my poor Robert. And this does notbelong to you. Lock all the doors, bar all the windows, and burn thembefore the police come.""Wait a bit," said Nancy--"wait a bit." They sat on each side of thenotes; Penfold agitated and terrified, Nancy confounded and perplexed.CHAPTER LVIII.PUNCTUALLY at ten o'clock Helen returned to Frith Street, and found Mr.Undercliff behind a sort of counter, employed in tracing; a workman wasseated at some little distance from him; both bent on their work."Mr. Undercliff?" said Helen.He rose and turned toward her politely--a pale, fair man, with a keengray eye and a pleasant voice and manner; "I am Edward Undercliff. Youcome by appointment?""Yes, sir.""A question of handwriting?""Not entirely, sir. Do you remember giving witness in favor of a youngclergyman, Mr. Robert Penfold, who was accused of forgery?""I remember the circumstance, but not the details.""Oh, dear! that is unfortunate," said Helen, with a deep sigh; she oftenhad to sigh now."Why, you see," said the expert, "I am called on such a multitude oftrials. However, I take notes of the principal ones. What year was itin?""In 1864."Mr. Undercliff went to a set of drawers arranged chronologically, andfound his notes directly. "It was a forged bill, madam, indorsed andpresented by Penfold. I was called to prove that the bill was not in thehandwriting of Penfold. Here is my fac-simile of the Robert Penfoldindorsed upon the bill by the prisoner." He handed it her, and sheexamined it with interest."And here are fac-similes of genuine writing by John Wardlaw; and here isa copy of the forged note."He laid it on the table before her. She started, and eyed it with horror.It was a long time before she could speak. At length she said, "And thatwicked piece of paper destroyed Robert Penfold.""Not that piece of paper, but the original; this is a fac-simile, so faras the writing is concerned. It was not necessary in this case to imitatepaper and color. Stay, here is a sheet on which I have lithographed thethree styles; that will enable you to follow my comparison. But perhapsthat would not interest you." Helen had the tact to say it would. Thusencouraged, the expert showed her that Robert Penfold's writing hadnothing in common with the forged note. He added: "I also detected in theforged note habits which were entirely absent from the true writing ofJohn Wardlaw. You will understand there were plenty of undoubtedspecimens in court to go by.""Then, oh, sir," said Helen, "Robert Penfold was not guilty.""Certainly not of writing the forged note. I swore that, and I'll swearit again. But when it came to questions whether he had passed the note,and whether he knew it was forged, that was quite out of my province.""I can understand that," said Helen; "but you heard the trial; you arevery intelligent, sir, you must have formed some opinion as to whether hewas guilty or not."The expert shook his head. "Madam," said he, "mine is a profound anddifficult art, which aims at certainties. Very early in my career I foundthat to master that art I must be single-minded, and not allow my ear toinfluence my eye. By purposely avoiding all reasoning from externalcircumstances, I have distanced my competitors in expertise; but Isometimes think I have rather weakened my powers of conjecture throughdisuse. Now, if my mother had been at the trial, she would give you anopinion of some value on the outside facts. But that is not my line. Ifyou feel sure he was innocent, and want me to aid you, you must get holdof the handwriting of every person who was likely to know old Wardlaw'shandwriting, and so might have imitated it; all the clerks in his office,to begin with. Nail the forger; that is your only chance.""What, sir!" said Helen, with surprise, "if you saw the true handwritingof the person who wrote that forged note, should you recognize it?""Why not? It is difficult; but I have done it hundreds of times.""Oh! Is forgery so common?""No. But I am in all the cases; and, besides, I do a great deal in abusiness that requires the same kind of expertise--anonymous letters. Idetect assassins of that kind by the score. A gentleman or lady, down inthe country, gets a poisoned arrow by the post, or perhaps a shower ofthem. They are always in disguised handwriting; those who receive themsend them up to me, with writings of all the people they suspect. Thedisguise is generally more or less superficial; five or six unconscioushabits remain below it, and often these undisguised habits are the truecharacteristics of the writer. And I'll tell you something curious,madam; it is quite common for all the suspected people to be innocent;and then I write back, 'Send me the handwriting of the people you suspectthe least;' and among them I often find the assassin.""Oh, Mr. Undercliff," said Helen, "you make my heart sick.""Oh, it is a vile world, for that matter," said the expert; "and thecountry no better than the town, for all it looks so sweet with its greenfields and purling rills. There they sow anonymous letters like barley.The very girls write anonymous letters that make my hair stand on end.Yes, it is a vile world.""Don't you believe him, miss," said Mrs. Undercliff, appearing suddenly.Then, turning to her son, "How can you measure the world? You live in alittle one of your own--a world of forgers and anonymous writers; you seeso many of these, you fancy they are common as dirt; but they are onlycommon to you because they all come your way.""Oh, that is it, is it?" said the expert, doubtfully."Yes, that is it, Ned," said the old lady, quietly. Then after a pauseshe said "I want you to do your very best for this young lady.""I always do," said the artist. "But how can I judge without materials?And she brings me none."Mrs. Undercliff turned to Helen, and said: "Have you brought him nothingat all, no handwritings--in your bag?"Then Helen sighed again. "I have no handwriting except Mr. Penfold's; butI have two printed reports of the trial.""Printed reports," said the expert, "they are no use to me. Ah! here isan outline I took of the prisoner during the trial. You can read faces.Tell the lady whether he was guilty or not," and he handed the profile tohis mother with an ironical look; not that he doubted her proficiency inthe rival art of reading faces, but that he doubted the existence of theart.Mrs. Undercliff took the profile, and, coloring slightly, said to MissRolleston: "It is living faces I profess to read. There I can see themovement of the eyes and other things that my son here has not studied."Then she scrutinized the profile. "It is a very handsome face," said she.The expert chuckled. "There's a woman's judgment," said he. "Handsome!the fellow I got transported for life down at Exeter was an Adonis, andforged wills, bonds, and powers of attorney by the dozen.""There's something noble about this face," said Mrs. Undercliff, ignoringthe interruption, "and yet something simple. I think him more likely tobe a cat's-paw than a felon." Having delivered this with a certain modestdignity, she laid the profile on the counter before Helen.The expert had a wonderful eye and hand; it was a good thing for societyhe had elected to be gamekeeper instead of poacher, detector of forgeryinstead of forger. No photograph was ever truer than this outline. Helenstarted, and bowed her head over the sketch to conceal the strong andvarious emotions that swelled at sight of the portrait of her martyr. Invain; if the eyes were hidden, the tender bosom heaved, the graceful bodyquivered, and the tears fell fast upon the counter.Mrs. Undercliff was womanly enough, though she looked like the late LordThurlow in petticoats; and she instantly aided the girl to hide herbeating heart from the man, though that man was her son. She distractedhis attention."Give me all your notes, Ned," said she, "and let me see whether I canmake something of them; but first perhaps Miss Rolleston will empty herbag on the counter. Go back to your work a moment, for I know you haveenough to do."The expert was secretly glad to be released from a case in which therewere no materials; and so Helen escaped unobserved except by one of herown sex. She saw directly what Mrs. Undercliff had done for her, andlifted her sweet eyes, thick with tears, to thank her. Mrs. Undercliffsmiled maternally, and next these two ladies did a stroke of business inthe twinkling of an eye, and without a word spoken, whereof anon. Helenbeing once more composed, Mrs. Undercliff took up the prayer-book, andasked her with some curiosity what could be in that."Oh," said Helen, "only some writing of Mr. Penfold. Mr. Undercliff doesnot want to see that; he is already sure Robert Penfold never wrote thatwicked thing.""Yes, but I should like to see some more of his handwriting, for allthat," said the expert, looking suddenly up."But it is only in pencil.""Never mind; you need not fear I shall alter my opinion."Helen colored high. "You are right; and I should disgrace my good causeby withholding anything from your inspection. There, sir."And she opened the prayer-book and laid Cooper's dying words before theexpert; he glanced over them with an eye like a bird, and compared themwith his notes."Yes," said he, "that is Robert Penfold's writing; and I say again thathand never wrote the forged note.""Let me see that," said Mrs. Undercliff."Oh, yes," said Helen, rather irresolutely; "but you look into the thingsas well as the writing, and I promised papa--""Can't you trust me?" said Mrs. Undercliff, turning suddenly cold and alittle suspicious."Oh, yes, madam; and indeed I have nothing to reproach myself with. Butmy papa is anxious. However, I am sure you are my friend; and all I askis that you will never mention to a soul what you read there.""I promise that," said the elder lady, and instantly bent her black browsupon the writing. And, as she did so, Helen observed her countenancerise, as a face is very apt to do when its owner enters on congenialwork."You would have made a great mistake to keep this from _me,"_ said she,gravely. Then she pondered profoundly; then she turned to her son andsaid, "Why, Edward, this is the very young lady who was wrecked in thePacific Ocean, and cast on a desolate island. We have all read about youin the papers, miss; and I felt for you, for one, but, of course, not asI do now I have seen you. You must let me go into this with you.""Ah, if you would!" said Helen. "Oh, madam, I have gone through torturesalready for want of somebody of my own sex to keep me in countenance! Oh,if you could have seen how I have been received, with what cold looks,and sometimes with impertinent stares, before I could even penetrate intothe region of those cold looks and petty formalities! Any miserable strawwas excuse enough to stop me on my errand of justice and mercy andgratitude.""Gratitude?""Oh, yes, madam. The papers have only told you that I was shipwrecked andcast away. They don't tell you that Robert Penfold warned me the ship wasto be destroyed, and I disbelieved and affronted him in return, and henever reproached me, not even by a look. And we were in a boat with thesailors all starved--not hungry; starved--and mad with thirst, and yet inhis own agony he hid something for me to eat. All his thought, all hisfear, was for me. Such things are not done in those great extremities ofthe poor, vulgar, suffering body, except by angels in whom the soul risesabove the flesh. And he is such an angel. I have had a knife lifted overme to kill me, madam--yes; and again it was he who saved me. I owe mylife to him on the island over and over again; and in return I havepromised to give him back his honor, that he values far more than life,as all such noble spirits do. Ah, my poor martyr, how feebly I plead yourcause! Oh, help me! pray, pray, help me! All is so dark, and I so weak,so weak." Again the loving eyes streamed; and this time not an eye wasdry in the little shop.The expert flung down his tracing with something between a groan and acurse. "Who can do that drudgery," he cried, "while the poor younglady-- Mother, you take it in hand; find me some material, though it is nobigger than a fly's foot, give me but a clew no thicker than a spider'sweb, and I'll follow it through the whole labyrinth. But you see I'mimpotent; there's no basis for me. It is a case for you. It wants ashrewd, sagacious body that can read facts and faces; and-- I won't jestany more, Miss Rolleston, for you are deeply in earnest. Well, then, shereally is a woman with a wonderful insight into facts and faces. She hasgot a way of reading them as I read handwriting; and she must have takena great fancy to you, for as a rule she never does us the honor tomeddle.""Have you taken a fancy to me, madam?" said Helen, modestly and tenderly,yet half archly."That I have," said the other. "Those eyes of yours went straight into myheart last night, or I should not be here this morning. That is partlyowing to my own eyes being so dark and yours the loveliest hazel. It istwenty years since eyes like yours have gazed into mine. Diamonds are nothalf so rare, nor a tenth part so lovely, to my fancy."She turned her head away, melted probably by some tender reminiscence. Itwas only for a moment. She turned round again, and said quietly, "Yes,Ned, I should like to try what I can do; I think you said these arereports of his trial. I'll begin by reading them."She read them both very slowly and carefully, and her face grew like ajudge's, and Helen watched each shade of expression with deep anxiety.That powerful countenance showed alacrity and hope at first. Then doubtand difficulty, and at last dejection. Helen's heart turned cold, and forthe first time she began to despair. For now a shrewd person, with aplain prejudice in her favor and Robert's, was staggered by the simplefacts of the trial.CHAPTER LIX.MRS. UNDERCLIFF, having read the reports, avoided Helen's eye (anotherbad sign). She turned to Mr. Undercliff, and, probably because theperusal of the reports had disappointed her, said, almost angrily:"Edward, what did you say to make them laugh at that trial? Both thesepapers say that 'an expert was called, whose ingenuity made the courtsmile, but did not counterbalance the evidence.'""Why, that is a falsehood on the face of it," said the expert, turningred. "I was called simply and solely to prove Penfold did not write theforged note; I proved it to the judge's satisfaction, and he directed theprisoner to be acquitted on that count. Miss Rolleston, the lawyers oftendo sneer at experts; but then four experts out of five are rankimpostors, a set of theorists, who go by arbitrary rules framed in thecloset, and not by large and laborious comparison with indisputabledocuments. These charlatans are not aware that five thousand cramped andtremulous but genuine signatures are written every day by honest men, andso they denounce every cramped or tremulous writing as a forgery. Thevarieties in a man's writing, caused by his writing with his glove on oroff, with a quill or a bad steel pen, drunk or sober, calm or agitated,in full daylight or dusk, etc., etc., all this is a dead letter to them,and they have a bias toward suspicion of forgery; and a banker's clerk,with his mere general impression, is better evidence than they are. But Iam an artist of a very different stamp. I never reason _a priori._ Icompare; and I have no bias. I never will have. The judges know this andthe pains and labor I take to be right, and they treat me with courtesy.At Penfold's trial the matter was easy; I showed the court he had notwritten the note, and my evidence crushed the indictment so far. Howcould they have laughed at my testimony? Why, they acted upon it. Thosereports are not worth a straw. What journals were they cut out of?""I don't know," said Helen."Is there nothing on the upper margin to show?""No.""What, not on either of them?""No.""Show them me, please. This is a respectable paper, too, the _DailyNews."_"Oh, Mr. Undercliff, how can you know that?""I don't _know_ it; but I think so, because the type and paper are likethat journal; the conductors are fond of clean type; so am I. Why, hereis another misstatement; the judge never said he aggravated his offenseby trying to cast a slur upon the Wardlaws. I'll swear the judge neversaid a syllable of the kind. What he said was, 'You can speak in arrestof judgment on grounds of law, but you must not impugn the verdict withfacts.' That was the only time he spoke to the prisoner at all. Thesereports are not worth a button."Helen lifted up her hands and eyes in despair. "Where shall I find thetruth?" said she. "The world is a quicksand.""My dear young lady," said Mrs. Undercliff, "don't you be discouraged.There must be a correct report in some paper or other.""I am not so sure of that," said Undercliff. "I believe the reporterstrundle off to the nearest public-house together and light their pipeswith their notes, and settle something or other by memory. Indeed theyhave reached a pitch of inaccuracy that could not be attained withoutco-operation. Independent liars contradict each other; but these chapsfollow one another in falsehood, like geese toddling after one anotheracross a common."Come, come," said Mrs. Undercliff, "if you can't help us, don't hurt us.We don't want a man to talk yellow jaundice to us. Miss Rolleston mustemploy somebody to read all the other papers, and compare the reportswith these.""I'll employ nobody but myself," said Helen. "I'll go to the BritishMuseum directly.""The Museum!" cried Mr. Undercliff, looking with surprise. "Why, theywill be half an hour groping for a copy of the _Times._ No, no; go toPeele's CoffeeHouse." He directed her where to find that place; and shewas so eager to do something for Robert, however small, that she took upher bag directly, and put up the prayer-book, and was going to ask forher extracts, when she observed Mr. Undercliff was scrutinizing them withgreat interest, so she thought she would leave them with him; but, onlooking more closely, she found that he was examining, not the reports,but the advertisements and miscellanea on the reverse side.She waited out of politeness, but she colored and bit her lip. She couldnot help feeling hurt and indignant. "Any trash is more interesting topeople than poor Robert's case," she thought. And at last she saidbitterly:"Those _advertisements_ seem to interest you, sir; shall I leave _them_with you?""If you please," said the expert, over whose head, bent in doggedscrutiny, this small thunderbolt of feminine wrath passed unconscious.Helen drove away to Peele's Coffee House.Mrs. Undercliff pondered over the facts that had been elicited in thisconversation; the expert remained absorbed in the advertisements at theback of Helen's reports.When he had examined every one of them minutely, he held the entireextracts up to the light, and looked through them; then he stuck a doublemagnifier in his eye, and looked through them with that. Then he took twopieces of card, wrote on them Re Penfold, and looked about for his othermaterials, to put them all neatly together. Lo! the profile of RobertPenfold was gone."Now that is too bad," said he. "So much for her dove-like eyes, that youadmired so. Miss Innocence has stolen that profile.""Stolen! she bought it--of me.""Why, she never said a word.""No; but she looked a look. She asked me, with those sweet imploringeyes, might she have it; and I looked yes. Then she glanced toward you,and put down a note. Here it is.""Why, you beat the telegraph, you two! Ten pounds for that thing! I mustmake it up to her somehow.""I wish you could. Poor girl, she is a lady every inch. But she is inlove with that Penfold. I'm afraid it is a hopeless case.""I have seen a plainer. But hopeless it is not. However, you work yourway, and I'll work mine.""But you can't; you have no materials.""No; but I have found a door that may lead to materials."Having delivered himself thus myteriously, he shut himself up inobstinate silence until Helen Rolleston called again, two days afterward.She brought a bag full of manuscript this time--to wit, copies in her ownhandwriting of eight reports, the Queen _v._ Penfold. She was in goodspirits, and told Mrs. Undercliff that all the reports were somewhat morefavorable than the two she had left; and she was beginning to tell Mr.Undercliff he was quite right in his recollection, when he interruptedher, and said, "All that is secondary now. Have you any objection toanswer me a question?"She colored; but said, "Oh, no. Ask me anything you like;" then sheblushed deeper."How did you become possessed of those two reports you left with me theother day?"At this question, so different from what she feared, Helen cleared up andsmiled, and said, "From a Mr. Hand, a clerk in Mr. Wardlaw's office; theywere sent me at my request."The expert seemed pleased at this reply; his brow cleared, and he said:"Then I don't mind telling you that those two reports will bringPenfold's case within my province. To speak plainly, Miss Rolleston, yournewspaper extracts--ARE FORGERIES."CHAPTER LX."FORGERIES!" cried Helen, with innocent horror."RANK FORGERIES," repeated the expert coolly."Forgeries!" cried Helen. "Why, how can printed things be that?""That is what I should like to know," said the old lady."Why, what else can you call them?" said the expert. "They are got up tolook like extracts from newspapers. But they were printed as they are,and were never in any journal. Shall I tell you how I found that out?""If you please, sir," said Helen."Well, then, I looked at the reverse side, and I found seven misprints inone slip, and five in the other. That was a great number to creep intoprinted slips of that length. The trial part did not show a singleerratum. 'Hullo!' said I to myself; 'why, one side is printed morecarefully than the other.' And that was not natural. The printing ofadvertisements is looked after quite as sharply as any other part in ajournal. Why, the advertisers themselves cry out if they are misprinted!""Oh, how shrewd!" cried Helen."Child's play," said the expert. "Well, from that blot I went on. Ilooked at the edges, and they were cut too clean. A gentleman with a pairof scissors can't cut slips out of a paper like this. They were cut inthe printer's office. Lastly, on holding them to the light, I found theyhad not been machined upon the plan now adopted by all newspapers; butworked by hand. In one word--forgeries!""Oh," said Helen, "to think I should have handled forgeries, and shownthem to you for real. Ah! I'm so glad; for now I have committed the samecrime as Robert Penfold; I have uttered a forged document. Take me up,and have me put in prison, for I am as guilty as ever he was." Her faceshone with rapture at sharing Robert's guilt.The expert was a little puzzled by sentiments so high-flown andunpractical."I think," said he, "you are hardly aware what a valuable discovery thismay prove to you. However, the next step is to get me a specimen of theperson's handwriting who furnished you with these. The chances are he isthe writer of the forged note."Helen uttered an exclamation that was almost a scream. The inference tookher quite by surprise. She looked at Mrs. Undercliff."He is right, I think," said the old lady."Right or wrong," said the expert, "the next step in the inquiry is to dowhat I said. But that demands great caution. You must write a short civilnote to Mr. Hand, and just ask him some question. Let me see. Ask himwhat newspapers his extracts are from, and whether he has got any more.He will not tell you the truth; but no matter, we shall get hold of hishandwriting.""But, sir," said Helen, "there is no need for that. Mr. Hand sent me anote along with the extracts.""The deuce he did. All the better. Any words in it that are in the forgednote? Is Penfold in it, or Wardlaw?"Helen reflected a moment, and then said she thought both those names werein it."Fetch me that note," said Undercliff, and his eyes sparkled. He was on ahot scent now."And let me study the genuine reports, and compare what they say with theforged ones," said Mrs. Undercliff."Oh, what friends I have found at last!" cried Helen.She thanked them both warmly, and hurried home, for it was getting late.Next day she brought Hand's letter to Mr. Undercliff, and devoured hiscountenance while he inspected it keenly and compared it with the forgednote.The comparison was long and careful, but unsatisfactory. Mr. Undercliffcould not conscientiously say whether Hand had written the forged note ornot. There were pros and cons."We are in deeper water than I thought," said he. "The comparison must beenlarged. You must write as I suggested, and get another note out of Mr.Hand.""And leave the prayer-book with me," said Mrs. Undercliff.Helen complied with these instructions, and in due course received acivil line from Mr. Hand, to say that the extracts had been sent him fromthe country by one of his fellow-clerks, and he had locked them up, lestMr. Michael Penfold, who was much respected in the office, should seethem. He could not say where they came from; perhaps from some provincialpaper. If of any value to Miss Rolleston, she was quite at liberty tokeep them. He added there was a coffee-house in the city where she couldread all the London papers of that date. This letter, which contained agreat many more words than the other, was submitted to Undercliff. Itpuzzled him so that he set to work, and dissected every curve thewriter's pen had made; but he could come to no positive conclusion, andhe refused to utter his conjectures."We are in a deep water," said he.Finally, he told his mother he was at a stand-still for the present."But I am not," said Mrs. Undercliff. She added, after a while, "I thinkthere's felony at the bottom of this.""Smells like it to me," said the expert."Then I want you to do something very clever for me.""What is that?""I want you to forge something.""Come! I say.""Quite innocent, I assure you.""Well, but it is a bad habit to commence.""All depends on the object. This is to take in a forger, that is all."The expert's eyes sparkled. He had always been sadly discontented withthe efforts of forgers, and thought he could do better."I'll do it," said he, gayly.CHAPTER LXI.GENERAL ROLLESTON and his daughter sat at breakfast in the hotel. GeneralRolleston was reading the _Times,_ and his eye lighted on something thatmade him start. He looked toward Helen, and his first impulse was tocommunicate it to her. But, on second thoughts, he preferred to put aquestion to her first."You have never told the Wardlaws what those sailors said?""No, papa. I still think they ought to have been told; but you know youpositively forbade me.""Of course I did. Why afflict the old gentleman with such a tale? Acouple of common sailors, who chose to fancy the ship was destroyed.""Who are better judges of such a thing than sailors?""Well, my child, if you think so, I can't help it. All I say is, sparethe old gentleman such a report. As for Arthur, to tell you the truth, Ihave mentioned the matter to him.""Ah, papa! Then why forbid me to tell him? What did he say?""He was very much distressed. 'Destroy the ship my Helen was in,' saidhe. 'If I thought Wylie had done that, I'd kill him with my own hand,though I was hanged for it next minute.' I never saw the young fellowfire up so before. But when he came to think calmly over it a littlewhile, he said: "I hope this slander will never reach my father's ears;it would grieve him deeply. I only laugh at it.'""Laugh at it! and yet talk of killing?""Oh, people say they laugh at a thing when they are very angry all thetime. However, as you are a good girl, and mind what you are told, I'llread you an advertisement that will make you stare. Here is Joseph Wylie,who, you say, wrecked the _Proserpine,_ actually invited by MichaelPenfold to call on him, and hear of something to his advantage.""Dear me!" said Helen, "how strange! Surely Mr. Penfold cannot know thecharacter of that man. Stop a minute! Advertise for him? Then nobodyknows where he lives? There, papa. You see he is afraid to go near ArthurWardlaw; he knows he destroyed the ship. What a mystery it all is! And soMr. Penfold is at home, after all; and not to send me a single line. Inever met with so much unkindness and discourtesy in all my life.""Ah, my dear," said the general, "you never defied the world before, asyou are doing now."Helen sighed; but, presently recovering her spirit, said she had donewithout the world on her dear island, and she would not be its slave now.As she was always as good as her word, she declined an invitation to playthe lion, and, dressing herself in plain merino, went down that veryevening to Michael Penfold's cottage.We run thither a little before her, to relate briefly what had takenplace there.Nancy Rouse, as may well be imagined, was not the woman to burn twothousand pounds. She locked the notes up; and after that night becamevery reserved on that head, so much so that, at last, Mr. Penfold saw itwas an interdicted topic, and dropped it in much wonder.When Nancy came to think of it in daylight, she could not help suspectingWylie had some hand in it; and it occurred to her that the old gentleman,who lodged next door, might be an agent of Wylie's and a spy on her.Wylie must have told him to push the 2,000 pounds into her room; but whata strange thing to do! To be sure, he was a sailor, and sailors had beenknown to make sandwiches of bank-notes and eat them. Still, her goodsense revolted against this theory, and she was sore puzzled; for, afterall, there was the money, and she had seen it come through the wall. Onething appeared certain, Joe had not forgotten her; he was thinking of heras much as ever, or more than ever; so her spirits rose, she begansinging and whistling again, and waited cunningly till Joe shouldreappear and explain his conduct. Hostage for his reappearance she heldthe 2,000 pounds. She felt so strong and saucy she was half sorry she hadallowed Mr. Penfold to advertise; but, after all, it did not much matter;she could always declare to Joe she had never missed him, for her part,and the advertising was a folly of poor Mr. Penfold's.Matters were in this condition when the little servant came up oneevening to Mr. Penfold and said there was a young lady to see him."A young lady for _me?"_ said he."Which she won't eat you, while I am by," said the sharp little girl. "Itis a lady, and the same what come before.""Perhaps she will oblige me with her name," said Michael, timidly."I won't show her up till she do," said this mite of a servant, who hadbeen scolded by Nancy for not extracting that information on Helen's lastvisit."Of course, I must receive her," said Michael, half consulting the mite;it belonged to a sex which promptly assumes the control of such gentlecreatures as he was."Is Miss Rouse in the way?" said he.The mite laughed, and said:"She is only gone down the street. I'll send her in to take care on you."With this she went off, and in due course led Helen up the stairs. Sheran in, and whispered in Michael's ear--"It is Miss Helen Rolleston."Thus they announced a lady at No. 3.Michael stared with wonder at so great a personage visiting him; and thenext moment Helen glided into the room, blushing a little, and evenpanting inaudibly, but all on her guard. She saw before her a ratherstately figure, and a face truly venerable, benignant and beautiful,though deficient in strength. She cast a devouring glance on him as shecourtesied to him; and it instantly flashed across her, "But for youthere would be no Robert Penfold." There was an unconscious tenderness inher voice as she spoke to him, for she had to open the interview."Mr. Penfold, I fear my visit may surprise you, as you did not write tome. But, when you hear what I am come about, I think you will not bedispleased with me for coming.""Displeased, madam! I am highly honored by your visit--a lady who, Iunderstand, is to be married to my worthy employer, Mr. Arthur. Pray beseated, madam.""Thank you, sir."Helen began in a low, thrilling voice, to which, however, she gavefirmness by a resolute effort of her will."I am come to speak to you of one who is very dear to you, and to all whoreally know him.""Dear to me? It is my son. The rest are gone. It is Robert."And he began to tremble."Yes, it is Robert," said she, very softly; then turning her eyes awayfrom him, lest his emotion should overcome her, she said-- "He has laidme and my father under deep obligations."She dragged her father in; for it was essential not to show Mr. Penfoldshe was in love with Robert."Obligations to my Robert? Ah, madam, it is very kind of you to say that,and cheer a desolate father's heart with praise of his lost son! But howcould a poor unfortunate man in his position serve a lady like you?""He defended me against robbers, single-handed.""Ah," said the old man, glowing with pride, and looking more beautifulthan ever, "he was always as brave as a lion.""That is nothing; he saved my life again, and again, and again.""God bless him for it! and God bless you for coming and telling me of it!Oh, madam, he was always brave, and gentle, and just, and good; so noble,so unfortunate."And the old man began to cry.Helen's bosom heaved, and it cost her a bitter struggle not to throw herarms around the dear old man's neck and cry with him. But she cameprepared for a sore trial of her feelings, and she clinched her hands andteeth, and would not give way an inch."Tell me how he saved your life, madam.""He was in the ship, and in the boat, with me.""Ah, madam," said Michael, "that must have been some other RobertPenfold; not my son. He could not come home. His time was not up, youknow.""It was Robert Penfold, son of Michael Penfold.""Excuse me a moment," said Michael; and he went to a drawer, and broughther a photograph of Robert. "Was it this Robert Penfold?"The girl took the photograph, and eyed it, and lowered her head over it."Yes," she murmured."And he was coming home in the ship with you. Is he mad? More trouble!more trouble!""Do not alarm yourself," said Helen; "he will not land in England foryears"--here she stifled a sob--"and long ere that we shall have restoredhim to society."Michael stared at that, and shook his head."Never," said he; "that is impossible.""Why impossible?""They all say he is a felon.""They all _shall_ say that he is a martyr.""And so he is; but how can that ever be proved?""I don't know. But I am sure the truth can always be proved, if peoplehave patience and perseverance.""My sweet young lady," said Michael sadly, "you don't know the world.""I am learning it fast, though. It may take me a few years, perhaps, tomake powerful friends, to grope my way among forgers, and spies, andwicked, dishonest people of all sorts, but so surely as you sit thereI'll clear Robert Penfold before I die."The good feeble old man gazed on her with admiration and astonishment.She subdued her flashing eye, and said with a smile: "And you shall helpme. Mr. Penfold, let me ask you a question. I called here before; but youwere gone to Edinburgh. Then I wrote to you at the office, begging you tolet me know the moment you returned. Now, do not think I am angry; butpray tell me why you would not answer my letter."Michael Penfold was not burdened with _amour propre,_ but who has not gota little of it in some corner of his heart? "Miss Rolleston," said he, "Iwas born a gentleman, and was a man of fortune once, till false friendsruined me. I am in business now, but still a gentleman; and neither as agentleman nor as a man of business could I leave a lady's letterunanswered. I never did such a thing in all my life. I never got yourletter," he said, quite put out; and his wrath was so like a dove's thatHelen smiled and said, "But I posted it myself. And my address was in it;yet it was not returned.""Well, madam, it was not delivered, I assure you."It was intercepted, then."He looked at her. She blushed, and said: "Yes, I am getting suspicious,ever since I found I was followed and watched. Excuse me a moment." Shewent to the window and peered through the curtains. She saw a man walkingslowly by; he quickened his pace the moment she opened the curtain."Yes," said she, "it was intercepted, and I am watched wherever I go."Before she could say any more a bustle was heard on the stairs, and inbounced Nancy Rouse, talking as she came. "Excuse me, Mr. Penfolds, but Ican't wait no longer with my heart a bursting; it _is!_ it _is!_ Oh, mydear, sweet young lady; the Lord be praised! You really are here aliveand well. Kiss you I must and shall; come back from the dead;there--there--there!""Nancy! my good, kind Nancy," cried Helen, and returned her embracewarmly.Then followed a burst of broken explanations; and at last Helen made outthat Nancy was the landlady, and had left Lambeth long ago."But, dear heart!" said she, "Mr. Penfolds, I'm properly jealous of you.To think of her coming here to see you, and not me!""But I didn't know you were here, Nancy." Then followed a stream ofinquiries, and such warm-hearted sympathy with all her dangers andtroubles, that Helen was led into revealing the cause of it all."Nancy," said she, solemnly, "the ship was willfully cast away; there wasa villain on board that made holes in her on purpose, and sunk her."Nancy lifted up her hands in astonishment. But Mr. Penfold was far moresurprised and agitated."For Heaven's sake, don't say that!" he cried."Why not, sir?" said Helen; "it is the truth; and I have got thetestimony of dying men to prove it.""I am sorry for it. Pray don't let anybody know. Why, Wardlaws would losethe insurance of 160,000 pounds.""Arthur Wardlaw knows it. My father told him.""And he never told me," said Penfold, with growing surprise."Goodness me! what a world it is!" cried Nancy. "Why, that was murder,and no less. It is a wonder she wasn't drownded, and another friend intothe bargain that I had in that very ship. Oh, I wish I had the villainhere that done it, I'd tear his eyes out."Here the mite of a servant bounded in, radiant and giggling, gave Nancy atriumphant glance, and popped out again, holding the door open, throughwhich in slouched a seafaring man, drawn by Penfold's advertisement, anddecoyed into Nancy's presence by the imp of a girl, who thought to pleaseher mistress.Nancy, who for some days had secretly expected this visit, merely gave alittle squeak; but Helen uttered a violent scream; and, upon that, Wylierecognized her, and literally staggered back a step or two, and thesewords fell out of his mouth--"The sick girl!"Helen caught them."Ay!" cried she; "but she is alive in spite of you. Alive to denounce youand to punish you."She darted forward, and her eyes flashed lightning."Look at this man, all of you," she cried. "Look at him well. THIS IS THEWRETCH THAT SCUTTLED THE _Proserpine!"_CHAPTER LXII."OH, Miss Helen, how can you say that?" cried Nancy, in utter dismay."I'll lay my life poor Joe never did such wickedness."But Helen waved her off without looking at her, and pointed at Wylie."Are you blind? Why does he cringe and cower at sight of me? I tell youhe scuttled the _Proserpine,_ and the great auger he did it with I haveseen and handled. Yes, sir, you destroyed a ship, and the lives of manyinnocent persons, whose blood now cries to Heaven against you; and if _I_am alive to tell the cruel tale, it is no thanks to you; for you did yourbest to kill me, and, what is worse, to kill Robert Penfold, thisgentleman's son; for he was on board the ship. You are no better than anassassin.""I am a man that's down," said Wylie, in a low and broken voice, hanginghis head. "Don't hit me any more. I didn't mean to take anybody's life. Itook my chance with the rest, lady, as I'm a man. I have lain in my bedmany's the night, crying like a child, with thinking you were dead. Andnow I am glad you are alive to be revenged on me. Well, you see, it isyour turn now; you have lost me my sweetheart, there; she'll never speakto me again, after this. Ah, the poor man gets all the blame! You don'task who tempted me; and, if I was to tell you, you'd hate me worse thanever; so I'll belay. If I'm a sinner, I'm a sufferer. England's too hotto hold me. I've only to go to sea, and get drowned the quickest way."And with this he vented a deep sigh, and slouched out of the room.Nancy sank into a seat, and threw her apron over her head, and rocked andsobbed as if her heart would break.As for Helen Rolleston, she still stood in the middle of the room,burning with excitement.Then poor old Michael came to her, and said, almost in a whisper:"It is a bad business; he is her sweetheart, and she had the highestopinion of him."This softened Helen in a great measure. She turned and looked at Nancy,and said:"Oh, dear, what a miserable thing! But I couldn't know that."After a while, she drew a chair, and sat down by Nancy, and said:"I won't _punish_ him, Nancy."Nancy burst out sobbing afresh."You have punished him," said she, bruskly, "and me, too, as never didyou no harm. You have driven him out of the country, you have."At this piece of feminine justice Helen's anger revived. "So, then," saidshe, "ships are to be destroyed, and ladies and gentlemen murdered, andnobody is to complain, or say an angry word, if the wretch happens to bepaying his addresses to you. That makes up for all the crimes in theworld. What! Can an honest woman like you lose all sense of right andwrong for a man? And such a man!""Why, he is as well-made a fellow as ever I saw," sobbed Nancy."Oh, is he?" said Helen, ironically--her views of manly beauty weredifferent, and black eyes a _sine qua non_ with her--"then it is a pityhis soul is not made to correspond. I hope by my next visit you will havelearned to despise him as you ought. Why, if I loved a man ever so, I'dtear him out of my heart if he committed a crime; ay, though I tore mysoul out of my body to do it.""No, you wouldn't," said Nancy, recovering some of her natural pugnacity;"for we are all tarred with the same stick, gentle or simple.""But I assure you I would," cried Helen; "and so ought you.""Well, miss, you begin," cried Nancy, suddenly firing up through hertears. "If the _Proserpine_ was scuttled, which I've your word for it,Miss Helen, and I never knew you tell a lie, why, your sweetheart is moreto blame for it than mine."Helen rose with dignity."You are in grief," said she. "I leave you to consider whether you havedone well to affront me in your own house." And she was moving to thedoor with great dignity, when Nancy ran and stopped her."Oh, don't leave me so, Miss Helen," she cried; "don't you go to quarrelwith me for speaking the truth too plain and rude, as is a plain-spokenbody at the best; and in such grief myself I scarce know what to say. Butindeed, and in truth, you mustn't go and put it abroad that the ship wasscuttled; if you do, you won't hurt Joe Wylie; he'll get a ship and flythe country. Who you'll hurt will be your own husband as is tobe--Wardlaws.""Shall I, Mr. Penfold?" asked Helen, disdainfully."Well, madam, certainly it might create some unworthy suspicion."Suspicion?" cried Nancy. "Don't you think to throw dust in my eyes. Whathad poor Joe to gain by destroying that there ship? you know very well hewas bribed to do it; and risk his own life. And who bribed him? Whoshould bribe him, but the man as owned the ship?""Miss Rouse," said Mr. Penfold, "I sympathize with your grief, and makegreat allowance; but I will not sit here and hear my worthy employerblackened with such terrible insinuations. The great house of Wardlawbribe a sailor to scuttle their own ship, with Miss Rolleston and onehundred and sixty thousand pounds' worth of gold on board! Monstrous!monstrous!""Then what did Joe Wylie mean?" replied Nancy. "Says he, 'The poor mangets all the blame. If I was to tell you who tempted me,' says he, 'you'dhate me worse.' Then I say, why should she hate him worse? Because it'sher sweetheart tempted mine. I stands to that."This inference, thus worded, struck Helen as so droll that she turned herhead aside to giggle a little. But old Penfold replied loftily:"Who cares what a _Wylie_ says against a great old mercantile house ofLondon City?""Very well, Mr. Penfolds," said Nancy, with one great final sob, anddried her eyes with her apron; and she did it with such an air, they bothsaw she was not going to shed another tear about the matter. "Very well;you are both against me; then I'll say no more. But I know what I know.""And what do you know?" inquired Helen."Time will show," said Nancy, turning suddenly very dogged--"time willshow."Nothing more was to be got out of her after that; and Helen, soon after,made her a civil, though stiff, little speech; regretted the pain she hadinadvertently caused her, and went away, leaving Mr. Penfold her address.On her return home, she entered the whole adventure in her diary. Shemade a separate entry to this effect:_Mysterious._--My letter to Mr. Penfold at the office intercepted.Wylie hints that he was bribed by Messrs. Wardlaw.Nancy Rouse suspects that it was Arthur, and says time will show.As for me, I can neither see why Wylie should scuttle the ship unless hewas bribed by somebody, nor what Arthur or his father could gain bydestroying that ship. This is all as dark as is that more cruel mysterywhich alone I care to solve.CHAPTER LXIII.NEXT morning, after a sleepless night, Nancy Rouse said to Mr. Penfold,"Haven't I heard you say as bank-notes could be traced to folk?""Certainly, madam," said Michael. "But it is necessary to take thenumbers of them.""Oh! And how do you do that?""Why, every note has its own number.""La! ye don't say so; then them fifties are all numbered, belike.""Certainly, and if you wish me to take down the numbers, I will do so.""Well, sir, some other day you shall. I could not bear the sight of themjust yet; for it is them as has been the ruin of poor Joe Wylie, I dothink."Michael could not follow this; but, the question having been raised, headvised her, on grounds of common prudence, not to keep them in the housewithout taking down their numbers."We will talk about that in the evening," said Nancy.Accordingly, at night, Nancy produced the notes, and Michael took downthe numbers and descriptions in his pocket-book. They ran from 16,444 to16,463. And he promised her to try and ascertain through what hands theyhad passed. He said he had a friend in the Bank of England, who mightperhaps be able to discover to what private bank they had been issued inthe first instance, and then those bankers, on a strong representation,might perhaps examine their books, and say to whom they had paid them. Hetold her the notes were quite new, and evidently had not been separatedsince their first issue.Nancy caught a glimpse of his meaning, and set herself doggedly to watchuntil the person who had passed the notes through the chimney should comefor them. "He will miss them," said she, "you mark my words."Thus Helen, though reduced to a standstill herself, had set an inquiry onfoot which was alive and ramifying.In the course of a few days she received a visit from Mrs. Undercliff.That lady came in, and laid a prayer-book on the table, saying, "I havebrought it you back, miss; and I want you to do something for mysatisfaction.""Oh, certainly," said Helen. "What is it?""Well, miss, first examine the book and the writing. Is it all right?"Helen examined it, and said it was: "Indeed," said she, "the bindinglooks fresher, if anything.""You have a good eye," said Mrs. Undercliff. "Well, what I want you to dois-- Of course Mr. Wardlaw is a good deal about you?""Yes.""Does he go to church with you ever?""No.""But he would, if you were to ask him.""I have no doubt he would; but why?""Manage matters so that he shall go to church with you, and then put thebook down for him to see the writing, all in a moment. Watch his face andtell me."Helen colored up and said: "No; I can't do that. Why, it would be turningGod's temple into a trap! Besides--""The real reason first, if you please," said this horribly shrewd oldwoman."Well, Mr. Arthur Wardlaw is the gentleman I am going to marry.""Good Heavens!" cried Mrs. Undercliff, taken utterly aback by this mostunexpected turn. "Why, you never told me that!""No," said Helen, blushing. "I did not think it necessary to go intothat. Well, of course, it is not in human nature that Mr. Wardlaw shouldbe zealous in my good work, or put himself forward; but he has neverrefused to lend me any help that was in his power; and it is repugnant tomy nature to suspect him of a harm, and to my feelings to lay a trap forhim.""Quite right," said Mrs. Undercliff; "of course I had no idea you weregoing to marry Mr. Wardlaw. I made sure Mr. Penfold was the man."Helen blushed higher still, but made no reply.Mrs. Undercliff turned the conversation directly. "My son has given manyhours to Mr. Hand's two letters, and he told me to tell you he isbeginning to doubt whether Mr. Hand is a real person, with a realhandwriting, at all."Oh, Mrs. Undercliff! Why, he wrote me two letters! However, I will askMr. Penfold whether Mr. Hand exists or not. When shall I have thepleasure of seeing you again?""Whenever you like, my dear young lady; but not upon this business ofPenfold and Wardlaw. I have done with it forever; and my advice to you,miss, is not to stir the mud any more." And with these mysterious wordsthe old lady retired, leaving Helen deeply discouraged at her desertion.However, she noted down the conversation in her diary, and made thiscomment: People find no pleasure in proving an accused person innocent;the charm is to detect guilt. This day a good, kind friend abandons mebecause I will not turn aside from my charitable mission to suspectanother person as wrongfully as he I love has been suspected._Mem.:_ To see, or make inquiries about Mr. Hand.General Rolleston had taken a furnished house in Hanover Square. He nowmoved into it, and Helen was compelled to busy herself in householdarrangements.She made the house charming; but unfortunately stood in a draught whileheated, and caught a chill, which a year ago would very likely have goneto her lungs and killed her, but now settled on her limbs in violentneuralgic pains, and confined her to her bed for a fortnight.She suffered severely, but had the consolation of finding she wastenderly beloved. Arthur sent flowers every day and affectionate notestwice a day. And her father was constantly by her bedside.At last she came down to the drawing-room, but lay on the sofa wellwrapped up, and received only her most intimate friends.The neuralgia had now settled on her right arm and hand, so that shecould not write a letter; and she said to herself with a sigh, "Oh, howunfit a girl is to do anything great! We always fall ill just when healthand strength are most needed."Nevertheless, during this period of illness and inaction, circumstancesoccurred that gave her joy.Old Wardlaw had long been exerting himself in influential channels toobtain what he called justice for his friend Rolleston, and had receivedsome very encouraging promises; for the general's services wereindisputable; and, while he was stirring the matter, Helen wasunconsciously co-operating by her beauty, and the noise her adventuremade in society. At last a gentleman whose wife was about the Queen,promised old Wardlaw one day that, if a fair opportunity should occur,that lady should tell Helen's adventure, and how the gallant old general,when everybody else despaired, had gone out to the Pacific, and found hisdaughter and brought her home. This lady was a courtier of ten years'standing, and waited her opportunity; but when it did come, she took it,and she soon found that no great tact or skill was necessary on such anoccasion as this. She was listened to with ready sympathy, and the verynext day some inquiries were made, the result of which was that the HorseGuards offered Lieutenant-General Rolleston the command of a crackregiment and a full generalship. At the same time, it was intimated tohim from another official quarter that a baronetcy was at his service ifhe felt disposed to accept it. The tears came into the stout oldwarrior's eyes at this sudden sunshine of royal favor, and Helen kissedold Wardlaw of her own accord; and the star of the Wardlaws rose into theascendant, and for a time Robert Penfold seemed to be quite forgotten.The very day General Rolleston became Sir Edward, a man and a womancalled at the Charing Cross Hotel, and asked for Miss Helen Rolleston.The answer was, she had left the hotel about ten days."Where is she gone, if you please?""We don't know.""Why, hasn't she left her new address?""No. The footman came for letters several times."No information was to be got here, and Mr. Penfold and Nancy Rouse wenthome greatly disappointed, and puzzled what to do.At first sight it might appear easy for Mr. Penfold to learn the newaddress of Miss Rolleston. He had only to ask Arthur Wardlaw. But, totell the truth, during the last fortnight Nancy Rouse had impressed herviews steadily and persistently on his mind, and he had also made adiscovery that co-operated with her influence and arguments to underminehis confidence in his employer. What that discovery was we must leave himto relate.Looking, then, at matters with a less unsuspicious eye than heretofore,he could not help observing that Arthur Wardlaw never put into the officeletter-box a single letter for his sweetheart. "He must write to her,"thought Michael; "but I am not to know her address. Suppose, after all,he did intercept that letter."And now, like other simple, credulous men whose confidence has beenshaken, he was literally brimful of suspicions, some of them reasonable,some of them rather absurd.He had too little art to conceal his change of mind; and so, very soonafter his vain attempt to see Helen Rolleston at the inn, he was bundledoff to Scotland on business of the office.Nancy missed him sorely. She felt quite alone in the world. She managedto get through the day--work helped her; but at night she satdisconsolate and bewildered, and she was now beginning to doubt her owntheory. For certainly, if all that money had been Joe Wylie's, he wouldhardly have left the country without it.Now, the second evening after Michael's departure, she was seated in hisroom, brooding, when suddenly she heard a peculiar knocking next door.She listened a little while, and then stole softly downstairs to her ownlittle room.Her suspicions were correct. It was the same sort of knocking that hadpreceded the phenomenon of the hand and bank-notes. She peeped into thekitchen and whispered, "Jenny--Polly--come here."A stout washerwoman and the mite of a servant came, wondering."Now you stand there," said Nancy, "and do as I bid you. Hold yourtongues, now. I know all about it."The myrmidons stood silent, but with panting bosoms; for the mysteriousknocking now concluded, and a brick in the chimney began to move.It came out, and immediately a hand with a ring on it came through theaperture, and felt about.The mite stood firm, but the big washerwoman gave signs of agitation thatpromised to end in a scream.Nancy put her hand roughly before the woman's mouth. "Hold your tongue,ye great soft--" And, without finishing her sentence, she darted to thechimney and seized the hand with both her own and pulled it with suchviolence that the wrist followed it through the masonry, and a roar washeard."Hold on to my waist, Polly," she cried. "Jenny, take the poker, and thatstring, and tie his hand to it while we hold on. Quick! quick! Are yeasleep?"Thus adjured, the mite got the poker against the wall and tried to tiethe wrist to it.This, however, was not easy, the hand struggled so desperately.However, pulling is a matter of weight rather than muscle. And the weightof the two women pulling downward overpowered the violent struggles ofthe man; and the mite contrived to tie the poker to the wrist, and repeatthe ligatures a dozen times in a figure of eight.Then the owner of the hand, who had hitherto shown violent strength,taken at a disadvantage, now showed intelligence. Convinced that skill aswell as force were against him, he ceased to struggle and became quitequiet.The women contemplated their feat with flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes.When they had feasted a reasonable time on the imprisoned hand, and twoof them, true to their sex, had scrutinized a green stone upon one of thefingers, to see whether it was real or false, Nancy took them by theshoulders, and bundled them good-humoredly out of the room.She then lowered the gas and came out, and locked the room up, and putthe key in her pocket."I'll have my supper with you," said she. "Come, Jenny, I'm cook; and youmake the kitchen as a body could eat off it, for I expect vicitors.""La, ma'am," said the mite; "he can't get out of the chimbly to visit husthrough the street door.""No, girl," said Nancy. "But he can send a hambassador; so Show her heyesand plague her art, as the play says, for of all the dirty kitchens giveme hers. I never was there but once, and my slipper come off for themuck, a sticking to a body like bird-lime."There was a knock at Nancy's street door; the little servant, full ofcuriosity, was for running to it on the instant. But Nancy checked her."Take your time," said she. "It is only a lodging-house keeper."CHAPTER LXIV.SIR EDWARD ROLLESTON could not but feel his obligations to the Wardlaws,and, when his daughter got better, he spoke warmly on the subject, andasked her to consider seriously whether she had not tried Arthur'saffection sufficiently."He does not complain to you, I know," said he; "but he feels it veryhard that you should punish him for an act of injustice that has alreadyso deeply afflicted him. He says he believes some fool or villain heardhim say that two thousand pounds was to be borrowed between them, andwent and imposed on Robert Penfold's credulity; meaning, perhaps, to callagain after the note had been cashed, and get Arthur's share of themoney.""But why did he not come forward?""He declares he did not know when the trial was till a month after. Andhis father bears him out; says he was actually delirious, and his life indanger. I myself can testify that he was cut down just in this way whenhe heard the _Proserpine_ was lost, and you on board her. Why not givehim credit for the same genuine distress at young Penfold's misfortune?Come, Helen, is it fair to afflict and punish this gentleman for themisfortune of another, whom he never speaks of but with affection andpity? He says that if you would marry him at once, he thinks he shouldfeel strong enough to throw himself into the case with you, and wouldspare neither money nor labor to clear Robert Penfold; but, as it is, hesays he feels so wretched, and so tortured with jealousy, that he can'tco-operate warmly with you, though his conscience reproaches him everyday. Poor young man! His is really a very hard case. For you promised himyour hand before you ever saw Robert Penfold.""I did," said Helen; "but I did not say when. Let me have one year to mygood work, before I devote my whole life to Arthur.""Well, it will be a year wasted. Why postpone your marriage for that?""I promised.""Yes, but he chose to fancy young Wardlaw is his enemy. You might relaxthat, now he tells you he will co-operate with you as your husband. Now,Helen, tell the truth--is it a woman's work? Have you found it so? Willnot Arthur do it better than you?"Helen, weakened already by days of suffering, began to cry, and say,"What shall I do? what shall I do?""If you have any doubt, my dear," said Sir Edward, "then think of what Iowe to these Wardlaws."And with that he kissed her, and left her in tears; and, soon after, sentArthur himself up to plead his own cause.It was a fine summer afternoon; the long French casements, looking on thegarden of the Square, were open, and the balmy air came in and wooed thebeautiful girl's cheek, and just stirred her hair at times.Arthur Wardlaw came softly in, and gazed at her as she lay; herloveliness filled his heart and soul; he came and knelt by her sofa, andtook her hand, and kissed it, and his own eyes glistened with tenderness.He had one thing in his favor. He loved her.Her knowledge of this had more than once befriended him, and made herrefuse to suspect him of any great ill; it befriended him now. She turneda look of angelic pity on him."Poor Arthur," she said. "You and I are both unhappy.""But we shall be happy, ere long, I hope," said Arthur.Helen shook her head.Then he patted her, and coaxed her, and said he would be her servant, aswell as a husband, and no wish of her heart should go ungratified."None?" said she, fixing her eyes on him."Not one," said he; "upon my honor." Then he was so soft and persuasive,and alluded so delicately to her plighted faith, that she felt like apoor bird caught in a silken net."Sir Edward is very good," said he; "he feels for me."At that moment, a note was sent up."Mr. Wardlaw is here, and has asked me when the marriage is to be. Ican't tell him; I look like a fool."Helen sighed deeply and had begun to gather those tears that weaken awoman. She glanced despairingly to and fro, and saw no escape. Then,Heaven knows why or wherefore--probably with no clear design at all but awoman's weak desire to cause a momentary diversion, to put off theinevitable for five minutes--she said to Arthur: "Please give me thatprayer-book. Thank you. It is right you should know this." And she putCooper's deposition, and Welch's, into his hands.He devoured them, and started up in great indignation. "It is anabominable slander," said he. "We have lost ten thousand pounds by thewreck of that ship, and Wylie's life was saved by a miracle as well asyour own. It is a foul slander. I hurl it from me."And he made his words good by whirling the prayer-book out of window.Helen uttered a scream. "My mother's prayer-book!" she cried."Oh! I beg pardon," said he."As well you may," said she. "Run and send George after it.""No, I'll go myself," said he. "Pray forgive me. You don't know what aterrible slander they have desecrated your prayerbook with."He ran out and was a long time gone. He came back at last, lookingterrified."I can't find it," said he. "Somebody has carried it off. Oh, howunfortunate I am!""Not find it!" said Helen. "But it _must_ be found.""Of course it must be found," said Arthur. "A pretty scandal to go intothe hands of Heaven knows who. I shall offer twenty guineas reward for itat once. I'll go down to the _Times_ this moment. Was ever anything sounlucky?""Yes, go at once," said Helen; "and I'll send the servants into theSquare. I don't want to say anything unkind, Arthur, but you ought not tohave thrown my prayer-book into the public street.""I know I ought not. I am ashamed of it myself.""Well, let me _see_ the advertisement.""You shall. I have no doubt we shall recover it."Next morning the _Times_ contained an advertisement offering twentyguineas for a prayer-book lost in Hanover Square, and valuable, not initself, but as a relic of a deceased parent.In the afternoon Arthur called to know if anybody had brought theprayer-book back.Helen shook her head sadly, and said, "No."He seemed very sorry and so penitent, that Helen said:"Do not despair. And if it is gone, why, I must remember you haveforgiven me something, and I must forgive you."The footman came in."If you please, miss, here is a woman wishes to speak to you; says shehas brought a prayer-book.""Oh, show her up at once," cried Helen.Arthur turned away his head to hide a cynical smile. He had good reasonsfor thinking it was not the one he had flung out of the window yesterday.A tall woman came in, wearing a thick veil, that concealed her features.She entered on her business at once."You lost a prayer-book in this Square yesterday, madam.""Yes.""You offer twenty guineas reward for it.""Yes.""Please to look at this one."Helen examined it, and said with joy it was hers.Arthur was thunderstruck. He could not believe his senses."Let me look at it," said he.His eyes went at once to the writing.He turned as pale as death and stood petrified.The woman took the prayer-book out of his unresisting hand, and said:"You'll excuse me, sir; but it is a large reward, and gentlefolkssometimes go from their word when the article is found."Helen, who was delighted at getting back her book, and rather tickled atArthur having to pay twenty guineas for losing it, burst out laughing,and said:"Give her the reward, Arthur; I am not going to pay for your misdeeds.""With all my heart," said Arthur, struggling for composure.He sat down to draw a check."What name shall I put?""Hum! Edith Hesket.""Two t's?""No, only one.""There.""Thank you, sir."She put the check into her purse, and brought the prayer-book to Helen."Lock it up at once," said she, in a voice so low that Arthur heard hermurmur, but not the words. And she retired, leaving Helen staring withamazement, and Arthur in a cold perspiration.CHAPTER LXV.WHEN the _Springbok_ weighed anchor and left the island, a solitary formwas seen on Telegraph Hill.When she passed eastward, out of sight of that point, a solitary figurewas seen on the cliffs.When her course brought the island dead astern of her, a solitary figurestood on the east bluff of the island, and was the last object seen fromthe boat as she left those waters forever.What words can tell the sickening sorrow and utter desolation thatpossessed that yearning bosom!When the boat that had carried Helen away was out of sight, he came backwith uneven steps to the cave, and looked at all the familiar objectswith stony eyes, and scarce recognized them, for the sunshine of herpresence was there no more. He wandered to and fro in a heavy stupor,broken every now and then by sharp pangs of agony that almost made himscream. And so the poor bereaved creature wandered about all day. Hecould not eat, he could not sleep, his misery was more than he couldbear. One day of desolation succeeded another. And what men say sohastily was true for once. "His life was a burden." He dragged it aboutwith him he scarce knew how.He began to hate all the things he had loved while she was there. Thebeautiful cave, all glorious with pearl, that he had made for her, hecould not enter it, the sight killed him, and she not there.He left Paradise Bay altogether at last and anchored his boat in a nookof Seal Bay. And there he slept in general. But sometimes he would liedown, wherever he happened to be, and sleep as long as he could.To him to wake was a calamity. And when he did wake, it was always with adire sense of reviving misery, and a deep sigh at the dark day he knewawaited him.His flesh wasted on his bones, and his clothes hung loosely about him.The sorrow of the mind reduced him almost to that miserable condition inwhich he had landed on the island.The dog and the seal were faithful to him; used to lie beside him, andoften whimpered; their minds, accustomed to communicate without the aidof speech, found out, Heaven knows how! that he was in grief or insickness.These two creatures, perhaps, saved his life or his reason. They camebetween his bereaved heart and utter solitude.Thus passed a month of wretchedness unspeakable.Then his grief took a less sullen form.He came back to Paradise Bay, and at sight of it burst into a passion ofweeping.These were his first tears, and inaugurated a grief more tender thanever, but less akin to madness and despair.Now he used to go about and cry her name aloud, passionately, by nightand day."Oh, Helen! Helen!"And next his mind changed in one respect, and he clung to everyreminiscence of her. Every morning he went round her haunts, and kissedevery place where he had seen her put her hand.Only the cave he could not yet face.He tried, too. He went to the mouth of it again and again, and looked in;but go into it and face it, empty of her--he could not.He prayed often.One night he saw her in a dream.She bent a look of angelic pity on him, and said but these words, "Livein my cave," then vanished.Alone on an island in the vast Pacific, who can escape superstition? Itfills the air. He took this communication as a command, and the nextnight he slept in the cave.But he entered it in the dark, and left it before dawn.By degrees, however, he plucked up courage and faced it in daylight. Butit was a sad trial. He came out crying bitterly after a few minutes.Still he persevered, because her image had bade him; and at last, oneevening, he even lighted the lamp, and sat there looking at the gloriouswalls and roof his hapless love had made.Getting stronger by degrees, he searched about, and found little relicsof her--a glove, a needle, a great hat she had made out of some largeleaves. All these he wept over and cherished.But one day he found at the very back of the cave a relic that made himstart as if a viper had stung his loving heart. It was a letter.He knew it in a moment. It had already caused him many a pang; but now italmost drove him mad. Arthur Wardlaw's letter.He recoiled from it, and let it lie. He went out of the cave, and cursedhis hard fate. But he came back. It was one of those horrible things aman abhors, yet cannot keep away from. He took it up and dashed it downwith rage many times; but it all ended in his lighting the lamp at night,and torturing himself with every word of that loving letter.And she was going home to the writer of that letter, and he was leftprisoner on the island. He cursed his generous folly, and writhed inagony at the thought. He raged with jealousy, so that his very grief wasblunted for a time.He felt as if he must go mad.Then he prayed--prayed fervently. And at last, worn out with such fierceand contending emotions, he fell into a deep sleep, and did not wake tillthe sun was high in heaven.He woke; and the first thing he saw was the fatal letter lying at hisfeet in a narrow stream of sunshine that came peering in.He eyed it with horror. This, then, was then to haunt him by night andday.He eyed it and eyed it. Then turned his face from it; but could not helpeying it again.And at last certain words in this letter seemed to him to bear anaffinity to another piece of writing that had also caused him a greatwoe. Memory by its subtle links connected these two enemies of histogether. He eyed it still more keenly, and that impression becamestrengthened. He took the letter and looked at it close, and held it atarm's length and devoured it; and the effect of this keen examination wasvery remarkable. It seemed to restore the man to energy and to somethinglike hope. His eyes sparkled, and a triumphant "Ah!" burst from hisbosom.He became once more a man of action. He rose, and bathed, and walkedrapidly to and fro upon the sands, working himself up to a daringenterprise. He took his saw into the jungle, and cut down a tree of akind common enough there. It was wonderfully soft, and almost as light ascork. The wood of this was literally useless for any other purpose thanthat to which Penfold destined it. He cut a great many blocks of thiswood, and drilled holes in them, and, having hundreds of yard of goodline, attached these quasi corks to the gunwale, so as to make alife-boat. This work took him several days, during which time an eventoccurred that encouraged him.One morning he saw about a million birds very busy in the bay, and itproved to be a spermaceti whale come ashore.He went out to her directly with all his tools, for he wanted oil for hisenterprise, and the seal oil was exhausted.When he got near the whale in his boat, he observed a harpoon sticking inthe animal's back. He cut steps with his ax in the slippery carcass, andgot up to it as well as he could, extracted it by cutting and pulling,and threw it down into his boat, but not till he had taken the precautionto stick a great piece of blubber on the barbed point. He then sawed andhacked under difficulties, being buffeted and bothered with thousands ofbirds, so eager for slices that it was as much as he could do to avoidthe making of minced fowl; but, true to his gentle creed, he contrived toget three hundred-weight of blubber without downright killing any ofthese greedy competitors, though he buffeted some of them, and nearlyknocked out what little sense they had.He came ashore with his blubber and harpoon, and when he came to examinethe latter, he found that the name of the owner was cut deeply in thesteel-- Josh. Fullalove, J. Fernandez. This inscription had a greateffect on Robert Penfold's mind. It seemed to bring the island of JuanFernandez, and humanity in general, nearer to him.He boiled down the blubber, and put a barrel of oil on board hislife-boat. He had a ship's lantern to burn it in. He also pitched herbottom as far as he could get at it, and provisioned her for a longvoyage: taking care to lash the water-cask and beef-cask to thefore-thwart and foremast, in case of rough weather.When he had done all this, it occurred to him suddenly that, should heever escape the winds and waves, and get to England, he would then haveto encounter difficulties and dangers of another class, and lose thebattle by his poverty."I play my stake now," said he. "I will throw no chance away."He reflected, with great bitterness, on the misery that want of money hadalready brought on him; and he vowed to reach England rich, or go to thebottom of the Pacific.This may seem a strange vow for a man to make on an unknown island; butRobert Penfold had a powerful understanding, sharpened by adversity, andhis judgment told him truly that he possessed wealth on this island, bothdirectly and indirectly. In the first place, knowledge is sometimeswealth, and the knowledge of this island was a thing he could sell to theAmerican merchants on the coast of Chili; and, with this view, he put onboard his boat specimens of the cassia and other woods, fruit, spices,pitch, guano, pink and red coral, pearl oysters, shells, cochineal,quartz, cotton, etc., etc.Then he took his chisel, and struck all the larger pearls off the shellsthat lined Helen's cave. The walls and roof yielded nine enormous pearls,thirty large ones, and a great many of the usual size.He made a pocket inside his waistcoat to hold the pearls safe.Then he took his spade and dug into the Spanish ship for treasure. Butthis was terrible work. The sand returned upon the spade and trebled hislabor.The condition to which time and long submersion had reduced this ship andcargo was truly remarkable. Nothing to be seen of the deck but a thinbrown streak that mingled with the sand in patches; of the timbersnothing but the uprights, and of those the larger half eaten anddissolved.He dug five days, and found nothing solid.On the sixth, being now at the bottom the ship, he struck his spadeagainst something hard and heavy.On inspection it looked like ore, but of what metal he could not tell; itwas as black as a coal. He threw this on one side, and found nothingmore; but the next day he turned up a smaller fragment, which he tookhome and cleaned with lime juice. It came out bright in places likesilver.This discovery threw light on the other. The piece of black ore, weighingabout seven pounds, was in reality silver coin, that a century ofsubmersion had reduced to the very appearance it wore before it ever wentinto the furnace.He dug with fresh energy on this discovery, but found nothing more in theship that day.Then it occurred to him to carry off a few hundred-weight of pink coral.He got some fine specimens; and, while he was at that work, he fell inwith a piece that looked very solid at the root and unnaturally heavy. Ona nearer examination this proved to be a foreign substance incrusted withcoral. It had twined and twisted and curled over the thing in a mostunheard-of way. Robert took it home, and, by rubbing here and there withlemon juice, at last satisfied himself that this object was a silver boxabout the size of an octavo volume.It had no keyhole, had evidently been soldered up for greater security,and Robert was left to conjecture how it had come there.He connected it at once with the ship, and felt assured that some attempthad been made to save it. There it had lain by the side of the vessel allthese years, but, falling clear of the sand, had been embraced by thegrowing coral, and was now a curiosity, if not a treasure.He would not break the coral, but put it on board his life-boat just asit was.And now he dug no more. He thought he could sell the galleon as well asthe island, by sample, and he was impatient to be gone.He reproached himself, a little unjustly, for allowing a woman toundertake the task of clearing him."To what annoyances, and perhaps affronts, have I exposed her!" said he."No, it is a man's business to defend, not to be defended."To conclude: At high tide one fine afternoon he went on board with Ponto,and, hoisting his foresail only, crossed the bay, ranging along theisland till he reached the bluff. He got under this, and, by means of hiscompass and previous observations, set the boat's head exactly on theline the ducks used to take. Then he set his mainsail too, and stretchedboldly out across the great Pacific Ocean.Time seems to wear out everything, even bad luck. It ran strong againstRobert Penfold for years. But, when it had struck its worst blow, andparted him and Helen Rolleston, it relaxed, and a tide of good luck setin, which, unfortunately, the broken-hearted man could not appreciate atthe time. However, so it was. He wanted oil; and a whale came ashore. Hewanted treasure, and the sea gave him a little back of all it hadswallowed; and now he wanted fine weather; and the ocean for days andnights was like peach-colored glass, dimpled here and there; and softwesterly airs fanned him along by night and day.To be sure, he was on the true Pacific Ocean, at a period when it isreally free from storms. Still, even for that latitude, he had wonderfulweather for six days; and on the seventh he fell in with a schooner, theskipper and crew of which looked over the bulwarks at him with wonder andcordiality, and, casting out a rope astern, took him in tow.The skipper had been eying him with amazement for some hours through histelescope; but he was a man that had seen a great many strange things,and it was also a point of honor with him never to allow that he wasastonished, or taken by surprise, or greatly moved."Wal, stranger," said he, "what craft is that?""The _Helen."_"Where d'ye hail from? not that I am curious.""From an unknown island.""Do tell. What, another! Is it anyways nigh?""Not within seven hundred miles.""Je--rusalem! Have you sailed all that in a cockle-shell?""Yes.""Why, what are ye? the Wandering Jew afloat, or the Ancient Mariner? oronly a kinder nautilus?""I'm a landsman.""A landsman! then so is Neptune. What is your name when you are ashore?""Robert Penfold. The Reverend Robert Penfold.""The Reverend-- Je--rusalem!""May I ask what is your name, sir?""Wal, I reckon you may, stranger. I'm Joshua Fullalove from the States,at present located on the island of Juan Fernandez!""Joshua Fullalove! That is lucky. I've got something that belongs toyou."He looked about and found the harpoon, and handed it up in a mightystraightforward, simple way.Joshua stared at him incredulously at first, but afterward withamazement. He handled the harpoon, and inquired where Robert had fallenin with it. Robert told him."You're an honest man," said Fullalove, "you air. Come aboard." He wasthen pleased to congratulate himself on his strange luck in havingdrifted across an honest man in the middle of the ocean. "I've heerd,"said he, "of an old chap as groped about all his life with a lantern, andcouldn't find one. Let's liquor."He had some celestial mixture or other made, including rum, mint, andsnow from the Andes, and then began his interrogatories, againdisclaiming curiosity at set intervals."Whither bound, honest man?""The coast of Chili.""What for?""Trade.""D'ye buy or sell? Not that it is my business.""I wish to sell.""What's the merchandise?""Knowledge, and treasure."Fullalove scratched his head. "Hain't ye got a few conundrums to swap forgold dust as well?"Robert smiled faintly. The first time this six weeks."I have to sell the knowledge of an island with rich products; and I haveto sell the contents of a Spanish treasure-ship that I found buried inthe sand of that island."The Yankee's eyes glistened."Wal," said he, "I do business in islands myself. I've leased this JuanFernandez. But one of them is enough at a time. I'm monarch of all Isurvey. But then what I survey is a mixallaneous bilin' of Irish andOtaheitans, that it's pizen to be monarch of. And now them darned Irishhas taken to converting the heathens to superstition and the worship ofimages, and breaks their heads if they won't. And the heathens are allsmiles and sweetness and immorality. No, islands is no bait to me.""I never asked you," said Robert. "What I do ask you is to land me atValparaiso. There I'll find a purchaser, and will pay you handsomely foryour kindness.""That is fair," said Fullalove, dryly. "What will you pay me?""I'll show you," said Robert. He took out of his, pocket the smallerconglomeration of Spanish coin, and put it into Fullalove's hand. "That,"said he, "is silver coin I dug out of the galleon."Fullalove inspected it keenly, and trembled slightly. Robert then wentlightly over the taffrail, and slid down the low rope into his boat. Heheld up the black mass we have described."This is solid silver. I will give it you, and my best thanks, to land meat Valparaiso.""Heave it aboard," said the Yankee.Robert steadied himself and hove it on board. The Yankee caught it, heavyas it was, and subjected it to some chemical test directly."Wal," said he, "that is a bargain. I'll land ye at Valparaiso for this.Jack, lay her head S.S.E. and by E."Having given this order, he leaned over the taffrail and asked for moresamples. Robert showed him the fruits, woods, and shells, and the pinkcoral, and bade him observe that the boat was ballasted with pearloysters. He threw him up one, and a bunch of pink coral. He then shinnedup the rope again, and the interrogatories recommenced. But this time hewas questioned closely as to who he was, and how he came on the island?and the questions were so shrewd and penetrating that his fortitude gaveway, and he cried out in anguish, "Man, man! do not torture me so. Oh, donot make me talk of my grief and my wrongs! they are more than I canbear."Fullalove forbore directly, and offered him a cigar. He took it, and itsoothed him a little; it was long since he had smoked one. His agitationsubsided, and a quiet tear or two rolled down his haggard cheek.The Yankee saw, and kept silence.But, when the cigar was nearly smoked out, he said he was afraid Robertwould not find a customer for his island, and what a pity JoshuaFullalove was cool on islands just now."Oh!" said Robert, "I know there are enterprising Americans on the coastwho will give me money for what I have to sell."Fullalove was silent a minute, then he got a piece of wood and a knife,and said with an air of resignation, "I reckon we'll have to deal."Need we say that to deal had been his eager desire from the first?He now began to whittle a peg, and awaited the attack."What will you give me, sir?""What, money down? And you got nothing to sell but chances. Why, there'san old cuss about that knows where the island is as well as you do.""Then of course you will treat with him," said Robert, sadly."Darned if I do," said the Yankee. "You are in trouble, and he is not,nor never will be till he dies, and then he'll get it hot, I calc'late.He is a thief and stole my harpoon: you are an honest man and brought itback. I reckon I'll deal with you and not with that old cuss; not by ajugful! But it must be on a percentage. You tell me the bearings of thatthere island, and I'll work it and pay five per cent on the gross.""Would you mind throwing that piece of wood into the sea, Mr. Fullalove?"said Robert."Caen't be done, nohow. I caen't deal without whittlin'.""You mean you can't take an unfair advantage without it. Come, Mr.Fullalove, let us cut this short. I am, as you say, an honest and mostunfortunate man. Sir, I 