ect oneloves and learns. And one thing I have learned is this, that jealousythrows its illusions on every word and look and act. I went to my roomand sat down for a bit of reckoning. Hope had ceased to love me, I feltsure, and how was I to win her back?After all my castle building what was I come to?I heard my door open presently, and then I lifted my head. Uncle Ebstood near me in his stocking feet and shirt-sleeves.'In trouble,' he whispered.'In trouble,' I said.''Bout Hope?''It's about Hope.''Don't be hasty. Hope'll never go back on you,' he whispered. 'Shedoesn't love me,' I said impulsively. 'She doesn't care the snap of herfinger for me.'Don't believe it,' he answered calmly. 'Not a single word of it.Thet woman--she's tryin' t' keep her away from ye--but 'twon't make nodiffer'nce. Not a bit.'I must try to win her back--someway--somehow,' I whispered.'Gi n ye the mitten?' he asked.'That's about it,' I answered, going possibly too far in the depth of myfeeling.'Whew w!' he softly whistled. 'Wall, it takes two mittens t'make apair--ye'll hev t'ask her ag in.'Yes I cannot give her up,' I said decisively, 'I must try to win herback. It isn't fair. I have no claim upon her. But I must do it.'Consarn it! women like t'be chased,' he said. 'It's their natur'. Whatdo they fix up so fer--di'mon's an' silks an' satins--if 'tain't t'setmen a chasm 'uv 'em? You'd otter enjoy it. Stick to her--jes' like apuppy to a root. Thet's my advice.''Hope has got too far ahead of me,' I said. 'She can marry a rich man ifshe wishes to, and I don't see why she shouldn't. What am I, anyhow,but a poor devil just out of college and everything to win? It makes memiserable to think here in this great house how small I am.''There's things goin' to happen,' Uncle Eb whispered. 'I can't tell yewhat er when, but they're goin' to happen an' they're goin' to changeeverything.We sat thinking a while then. I knew what he meant--that I was toconquer the world, somehow, and the idea seemed to me so absurd I couldhardly help laughing as melancholy as I felt.'Now you go to bed,' he said, rising and gently touching my head withhis hand. 'There's things goin' t'happen, boy--take my word fer it.I got in bed late at night but there was no sleep for me. In the stillhours I lay quietly, planning my future, for now I must make myselfworth having and as soon as possible.Some will say my determination was worthy of a better lover but, blessyou! I have my own way of doing things and it has not been always sounsuccessful.Chapter 31Hope was not at breakfast with us.'The child is worn out,' said Mrs Fuller. 'I shall keep her in bed a dayor two.'Couldn't I see her a moment?' I enquired.'Dear! no!' said she. 'The poor thing is in bed with a headache.' IfHope had been ill at home I should have felt free to go and sit by heras I had done more than once. It seemed a little severe to be shut awayfrom her now but Mrs Fuller's manner had fore-answered any appeal and Iheld my peace. Having no children of her own she had assumed a sort ofproprietorship over Hope that was evident--that probably was why thegirl had ceased to love me and to write to me as of old. A troop ofmysteries came clear to me that morning. Through many gifts and favoursshe had got my sweetheart in a sort of bondage and would make a marriageof her own choosing if possible.'Is there anything you would like particularly for your breakfast? MrsFuller enquired.'Hain't no way pertic'lar,' said Uncle Eb. 'I gen rally eat buckwheatpancakes an' maple sugar with a good strong cup o'tea.Mrs Fuller left the room a moment.'Dunno but I'll go out to the barn a minnit 'n take a look at thehosses,' he said when she came back.'The stable is a mile away,' she replied smiling.'Gran' good team ye druv us out with las' night,' he said. 'Hed a chancet'look 'em over a leetle there at the door. The off hoss is puffed somefor'ard but if yer husband'll put on a cold bandage ev'ry night it'llmake them legs smoother n a hound's tooth.She thanked him and invited us to look in at the conservatory.'Where's yer husband?' Uncle Eb enquired.'He's not up yet,' said she, 'I fear he did not sleep well.'Now Mis Fuller,' said Uncle Eb, as we sat waiting, 'if there s anythingI can do t'help jes'le'me know what 'tis.She said there was nothing. Presently Uncle Eb sneezed so powerfullythat it rattled the crystals on the chandelier and rang in the brassmedallions.The first and second butlers came running in with a frightened look.There was also a startled movement from somebody above stairs.'I do sneeze powerful, sometimes,' said Uncle Eb from under his redbandanna. ''S enough if scare anybody.'They brought in our breakfast then--a great array of tempting dishes.'Jest hev four pancakes 'n a biled egg,' said Uncle Eb as he sipped histea. 'Grand tea!' he added, 'strong enough if float a silver dollar too.'Mrs Fuller,' I said rising, when we had finished, 'I thank you for yourhospitality, but as I shall have to work nights, probably, I must findlodgings near the office.'You must come and see us again,' she answered cordially. 'On SaturdayI shall take Hope away for a bit of rest to Saratoga probably--and fromthere I shall take her to Hillsborough myself for a day or two.'Thought she was goin' home with me,' said Uncle Eb.'O dear no!' said Mrs Fuller, 'she cannot go now. The girl is ill andit's such a long journey.'The postman came then with a letter for Uncle Eb.It was from David Brower. He would have to be gone a week or so buyingcattle and thought Uncle Eb had better come home as soon as convenient.'They're lonesome,' he said, thoughtfully, after going over the letteragain. ''Tain't no wonder--they're gittin' old.'Uncle Eb was older than either of them but he had not thought of that.'Le's see; 's about eight o clock,' said he, presently. 'I've got t'goan' ten' to some business o' my own. I'll be back here sometime if dayMis Fuller an' I'll hev if see thet girl. Ye musn't never try if keep me'way from her. She's sot on my knee too many year fer that--altogethertoo many.We arranged to meet there at four. Then a servant brought us our hats. Iheard Hope calling as we passed the stairway:'Won't you come up a minute, Uncle Eb? I want to see you very much.'Then Uncle Eb hurried upstairs and I came away.I read the advertisements of board and lodging--a perplexing task forone so ignorant of the town. After many calls I found a place to myliking on Monkey Hill, near Printing House Square. Monkey Hill was theeast end of William Street, and not in the least fashionable. There weresome neat and cleanly looking houses on it of wood, and brick, and brownstone inhabited by small tradesmen; a few shops, a big stable and thechalet sitting on a broad, flat roof that covered a portion of thestableyard. The yard itself was the summit of Monkey Hill. It laybetween two brick buildings and up the hill, from the walk, one lookedinto the gloomy cavern of the stable and under the low roof, on one sidethere were dump carts and old coaches in varying stages of infirmity.There was an old iron shop, that stood flush with the sidewalk, flankingthe stableyard. A lantern and a mammoth key were suspended above thedoor and hanging upon the side of the shop was a wooden stair ascendingto the chalet The latter had a sheathing of weather-worn clapboards.It stood on the rear end of the brick building, communicating with thefront rooms above the shop. A little stair of five steps ascended fromthe landing to its red door that overlooked an ample yard of roofing,adorned with potted plants. The main room of the chalet where we ate ourmeals and sat and talked, of an evening, had the look of a ship'scabin. There were stationary seats along the wall covered with leatherncushions. There were port and starboard lanterns and a big one ofpolished brass that overhung the table. A ship's clock that had a noisyand cheerful tick, was set in the wall. A narrow passage led to theroom in front and the latter had slanting sides. A big window of littlepanes, in its further end, let in the light of William Street. Here Ifound a home for myself, humble but quaint and cleanly. A thrifty Germanwho, having long followed the sea, had married and thrown out hisanchor for good and all, now dwelt in the chalet with his wife and twoboarders--both newspaper men. The old shopkeeper in front, once a sailorhimself, had put the place in shipshape and leased it to them.Mine host bore the name of Opper and was widely known as 'All Right'Opper, from his habit of cheery approval. Everything and everybody were'all right' to him so far as I could observe. If he were blessed ordamned he said 'all right. To be sure he took exceptions, on occasions,but even then the affair ended with his inevitable verdict of 'allright'. Every suggestion I made as to terms of payment and arrangementof furniture was promptly stamped with this seal of approval.I was comfortably settled and hard at work on my article by noon. Atfour I went to meet Uncle Eb. Hope was still sick in bed and we cameaway in a frame of mind that could hardly have been more miserable. Itried to induce him to stay a night with me in my new quarters.'I mus'n't,' he said cheerfully.' 'Fore long I'm comin' down ag'in butI can't fool 'round no longer now. I'll jes'go n git my new clothes andput fer the steamboat. Want ye t'go 'n see Hope tomorrow. She's comm upwith Mis Fuller next week. I'm goin' t' find out what's the matter uvher then. Somethin's wrong somewhere. Dunno what 'tis. She's all upsot.Poor girl! it had been almost as heavy a trial to her as to me' cuttingme off as she had done. Remembrances of my tender devotion to her, inall the years between then and childhood, must have made her sore withpity. I had already determined what I should do, and after Uncle Eb hadgone that evening I wrote her a long letter and asked her if I might notstill have some hope of her loving me. I begged her to let me know whenI might come and talk with her alone. With what eloquence I could bringto bear I told her how my love had grown and laid hold of my life.I finished my article that night and, in the morning, took it to MrGreeley. He was at his desk writing and at the same time giving ordersin a querulous tone to some workman who sat beside him. He did notlook up as he spoke. He wrote rapidly, his nose down so close to thestraggling, wet lines that I felt a fear of its touching them. I stoodby, waiting my opportunity. A full-bearded man in his shirt-sleeves camehurriedly out of another room.'Mr Greeley,' he said, halting at the elbow of the great editor.'Yes, what is it?' the editor demanded nervously, his hand wobbling overthe white page, as rapidly as before, his eyes upon his work.'Another man garrotted this morning on South Street.'Better write a paragraph,' he said, his voice snapping with impatienceas he brushed the full page aside and began sowing his thoughts onanother. 'Warn our readers. Tell 'em to wear brass collars with spikesin 'em till we get a new mayor.The man went away laughing.Mr Greeley threw down his pen, gathered his copy and handed it to theworkman who sat beside him.'Proof ready at five!' he shouted as the man was going out of the room.'Hello! Brower,' he said bending to his work again. 'Thought you'd blownout the gas somewhere.'Waiting until you reject this article,' I said.He sent a boy for Mr Ottarson, the city editor. Meanwhile he had begunto drive his pen across the broadsheets with tremendous energy.Somehow it reminded me of a man ploughing black furrows behind a fastwalking team in a snow flurry. His mind was 'straddle the furrow' whenMr Ottarson came in. There was a moment of silence in which the latterstood scanning a page of the Herald he had brought with him.'Ottarson!' said Mr Greeley, never slacking the pace of his busy hand,as he held my manuscript in the other, 'read this. Tell me what youthink of it. If good, give him a show.'The staff is full, Mr Greeley,' said the man of the city desk. Hiswords cut me with disappointment.The editor of the Tribune halted his hand an instant, read the lastlines, scratching a word and underscoring another.'Don't care!' he shrilled, as he went on writing. 'Used to slidedownhill with his father. If he's got brains we'll pay him eight dollarsa-week.The city editor beckoned to me and I followed him into another room.'If you will leave your address,' he said, 'I will let you hear from mewhen we have read the article.With the hasty confidence of youth I began to discount my future thatvery day, ordering a full dress suit, of the best tailor, hat and shoesto match and a complement of neck wear that would have done credit toBeau Brummel. It gave me a start when I saw the bill would empty mypocket of more than half its cash. But I had a stiff pace to follow, andevery reason to look my best.Chapter 32I took a walk in the long twilight of that evening. As it began to growdark I passed the Fuller house and looked up at its windows. Standingunder a tree on the opposite side of the avenue I saw a man come outof the door and walk away hurriedly with long strides. I met him at thenext corner.'Good-evening!' he said.I recognised then the voice and figure of John Trumbull. 'Been toFuller's,' said he.'How is Hope?' I asked.'Better,' said he. 'Walk with me?'With pleasure,' said I, and then he quickened his pace.We walked awhile in silence, going so fast! had hardly time to speak,and the darkness deepened into night. We hurried along through streetsand alleys that were but dimly lighted, coming out at length on a wideavenue passing through open fields in the upper part of the city. Lightsin cabin windows glowed on the hills around us. I made some remark aboutthem but he did not hear me. He slackened pace in a moment and beganwhispering to himself' I could not hear what he said. I thought ofbidding him good-night and returning but where were we and how could Ifind my way? We heard a horse coming presently at a gallop. At the firstloud whack of the hoofs he turned suddenly and laying hold of my armbegan to run. I followed him into the darkness of the open field.It gave me a spell of rare excitement for I thought at once ofhighwaymen--having read so much of them in the Tribune. He stoppedsuddenly and stooped low his hands touching the grass and neither spokeuntil the horse had gone well beyond us. Then he rose, stealthily, andlooked about him in silence, even turning his face to the dark sky whereonly a few stars were visible.'Well!' said he with a sort of grunt. 'Beats the devil! I thought itwas. A wonderful thing was happening in the sky. A great double moonseemed to be flying over the city hooded in purple haze. A little sprayof silver light broke out of it, as we looked, and shot backward andthen floated after the two shining disks that were falling eastward ina long curve. They seemed to be so near I thought they were coming downupon the city. It occurred to me they must have some connection with theodd experience I had gone through. In a moment they had passed out ofsight. We were not aware that we had witnessed a spectacle the likeof which had not been seen in centuries, if ever, since God made theheavens. The great meteor of 1860.'Let's go back,' said Trumbull. 'We came too far. I forgot myself.''Dangerous here?' I enquired.'Not at all,' said he, 'but a long way out of town--tired?'Rather,' I said, grateful for his evident desire to quiet my alarm.'Come!' said he as we came back to the pavement, his hand upon myshoulder. 'Talk to me. Tell me--what are you going to do?We walked slowly down the deserted avenue, I, meanwhile, talking of myplans.'You love. Hope,' he said presently. 'You will marry her?'If she will have me,' said I.'You must wait,' he said, 'time enough!He quickened his pace again as we came in sight of the scatteringshops and houses of the upper city and no other word was spoken. On thecorners we saw men looking into the sky and talking of the fallen moon.It was late bedtime when we turned into Gramercy Park.'Come in,' said he as he opened an iron gate.I followed him up a marble stairway and a doddering old English butleropened the door for us. We entered a fine hall, its floor of beautifulparquetry muffled with silken rugs. High and spacious rooms were allaglow with light.He conducted me to a large smoking-room, its floor and walls coveredwith trophies of the hunt--antlers and the skins of carnivora. Here hethrew off his coat and bade me be at home as he lay down upon a wickerdivan covered with the tawny skin of some wild animal. He stroked thefur fondly with his hand.'Hello Jock!' he said, a greeting that mystified me.'Tried to eat me,' he added, turning to me.Then he bared his great hairy arm and showed me a lot of ugly scars, Ibesought him to tell the story.'Killed him,' he answered. 'With a gun?'No--with my hands,' and that was all he would say of it.He lay facing a black curtain that covered a corner. Now and then Iheard a singular sound in the room--like some faint, far, night cry suchas I have heard often in the deep woods. It was so weird I felt somewonder of it. Presently I could tell it came from behind the curtainwhere, also, I heard an odd rustle like that of wings.I sat in a reverie, looking at the silent man before me, and in themidst of it he pulled a cord that hung near him and a bell rang.'Luncheon!' he said to the old butler who entered immediately.Then he rose and showed me odd things, carved out of wood, by his ownhand as he told me, and with a delicate art. He looked at one tiny thingand laid it aside quickly.'Can't bear to look at it now,' he said.'Gibbet?' I enquired.'Gibbet,' he answered.It was a little figure bound hand and foot and hanging from the gallowstree.'Burn it!' he said, turning to the old servant and putting it in hishands. Luncheon had been set between us, the while, and as we wereeating it the butler opened a big couch and threw snowy sheets of linenover it and silken covers that rustled as they fell.'You will sleep there,' said my host as his servant laid the pillows,'and well I hope.I thought I had better go to my own lodgings.'Too late--too late,' said he, and I, leg-weary and half-asleep,accepted his proffer of hospitality. Then, having eaten, he left me andI got into bed after turning the lights out Something woke me in thedark of the night. There was a rustling sound in the room. I raisedmy head a bit and listened. It was the black curtain that hung in thecorner. I imagined somebody striking it violently. I saw a white figurestanding near me in the darkness. It moved away as I looked at it. Acold wind was blowing upon my face. I lay a long time listening and byand by I could hear the deep voice of Trumbull as if he were groaningand muttering in his sleep. When it began to come light I saw the breezefrom an open window was stirring the curtain of silk in the corner. Igot out of bed and, peering behind the curtain, saw only a great whiteowl, caged and staring out of wide eyes that gleamed fiery in the dimlight. I went to bed again, sleeping until my host woke me in the latemorning.After breakfasting I went to the chalet. The postman had been there buthe had brought no letter from Hope. I waited about home, expectingto hear from her, all that day, only to see it end in bitterdisappointment.Chapter 33That very night, I looked in at the little shop beneath us and metRiggs. It was no small blessing, just as I was entering upon darkand unknown ways of life, to meet this hoary headed man with all hislanterns. He would sell you anchors and fathoms of chain and rope enoughto hang you to the moon but his 'lights' were the great attraction ofRiggs's. He had every kind of lantern that had ever swung on land orsea. After dark, when light was streaming out of its open door and broadwindow Riggs's looked like the side of an old lantern itself. It wasa door, low and wide, for a time when men had big round bellies andnothing to do but fill them and heads not too far above their business.It was a window gone blind with dust and cobwebs so it resembled the dimeye of age. If the door were closed its big brass knocker and massiveiron latch invited the passer. An old ship's anchor and a coil ofchain lay beside it. Blocks and heavy bolts, steering wheels, old brasscompasses, coils of rope and rusty chain lay on the floor and benches,inside the shop. There were rows of lanterns, hanging on the bare beams.And there was Riggs. He sat by a dusty desk and gave orders in a sleepy,drawling tone to the lad who served him. An old Dutch lantern, its lightsoftened with green glass, sent a silver bean across the gloomy upperair of the shop that evening. Riggs held an old un lantern with littlestreams of light bursting through its perforated walls. He was blind.One would know it at a glance. Blindness is so easy to be seen. Riggswas showing it to a stranger.'Turn down the lights,' he said and the boy got his step-ladder andobeyed him.Then he held it aloft in the dusk and the little lantern was like acastle tower with many windows lighted, and, when he set it down, therewas a golden sprinkle on the floor as if something had plashed into amagic pool of light there in the darkness.Riggs lifted the lantern, presently, and stood swinging it in his hand.Then its rays were sown upon the darkness falling silently into everynook and corner of the gloomy shop and breaking into flowing dapples onthe wall.'See how quick it is!' said he as the rays flashed with the speed oflightning. 'That is the only traveller from Heaven that travels fastenough to ever get to earth.Then came the words that had a mighty fitness for his tongue.'Hail, holy light! Offspring of Heaven first born.His voice rose and fell, riding the mighty rhythm of inspired song. Ashe stood swinging the lantern, then, he reminded me of a chanting priestbehind the censer. In a moment he sat down, and, holding the lanternbetween his knees, opened its door and felt the candle. Then as thelight streamed out upon his hands, he rubbed them a time, silently, asif washing them in the bright flood.'One dollar for this little box of daylight,' he said.'Blind?' said the stranger as he paid him the money.'No,' said Riggs, 'only dreaming as you are.I wondered what he meant by the words 'dreaming as you are.'Went to bed on my way home to marry,' he continued, stroking his longwhite beard, 'and saw the lights go out an' went asleep and it hasn'tcome morning yet--that's what I believe. I went into a dream. Think I'mhere in a shop talking but I'm really in my bunk on the good ship Aridcoming home. Dreamed everything since then--everything a man could thinkof. Dreamed I came home and found Annie dead, dreamed of blindness, ofold age, of poverty, of eating and drinking and sleeping and of manypeople who pass like dim shadows and speak to me--you are one of them.And sometimes I forget I am dreaming and am miserable, and then Iremember and am happy. I know when the morning comes I shall wake andlaugh at all these phantoms. And I shall pack my things and go up ondeck, for we shall be in the harbour probably--ay! maybe Annie andmother will be waving their hands on the dock!The old face had a merry smile as he spoke of the morning and all it hadfor him.'Seems as if it had lasted a thousand years,' he continued, yawning andrubbing his eyes. 'But I've dreamed the like before, and, my God! howglad I felt when I woke in the morning.It gave me an odd feeling--this remarkable theory of the old man. Ithought then it would be better for most of us if we could think all ourmisery a dream and have his faith in the morning--that it would bringback the things we have lost. I had come to buy a lock for my door, butI forgot my errand and sat down by Riggs while the stranger went awaywith his lantern.'You see no reality in anything but happiness,' I said.'It's all a means to that end,' he answered. 'It is good for me, thisdream. I shall be all the happier when I do wake, and I shall love Annieall the better, I suppose.'I wish I could take my bad luck as a dream and have faith only in goodthings,' I said.'All that is good shall abide,' said he, stroking his white beard, 'andall evil shall vanish as the substance of a dream. In the end the onlyrealities are God and love and Heaven. To die is just like waking up inthe morning.'But I know I'm awake,' I said.'You think you are--that's a part of your dream. Sometimes I think I'mawake--it all seems so real to me. But I have thought it out, and I amthe only man I meet that knows he is dreaming. When you'do wake, in themorning, you may remember how you thought you came to a certain shop andmade some words with a man as to whether you were both dreaming, and youwill laugh and tell your friends about it. Hold on! I can feel the shiplurching. I believe I am going to wake.He sat a moment leaning back in his chair with closed eyes, and asilence fell upon us in the which I could hear only the faint ticking ofa tall clock that lifted its face out of the gloom beyond me.'You there?' he whispered presently.'I am here,' I said.'Odd!' he muttered. 'I know how it will be--I know how it has beenbefore. Generally come to some high place and a great fear seizes me. Islip, I fall--fall--fall, and then I wake.After a little silence I heard him snoring heavily. He was still leaningback in his chair. I walked on tiptoe to the door where the boy stoodlooking out.'Crazy?' I whispered.'Dunno,' said he, smiling.I went to my room above and wrote my first tale, which was nothing moreor less than some brief account of what I had heard and seen down atthe little shop that evening. I mailed it next day to the Knickerbocker,with stamps for return if unavailable.Chapter 34New York was a crowded city, even then, but I never felt so lonelyanywhere outside a camp in the big woods, The last day of the first weekcame, but no letter from Hope. To make an end of suspense I went thatSaturday morning to the home of the Fullers. The equation of my valuehad dwindled sadly that week. Now a small fraction would have stood forit--nay, even the square of it.Hope and Mrs Fuller had gone to Saratoga, the butler told me. I cameaway with some sense of injury. I must try to be done with Hope. Therewas no help for it. I must go to work at something and cease to worryand lie awake of nights. But I had nothing to do but read and walk andwait. No word had come to me from the 'Tribune'--evidently it was notlanguishing for my aid. That day my tale was returned to me with thankswith nothing but thanks printed in black type on a slip of paper--cold,formal, prompt, ready-made thanks. And I, myself, was in about the samefix--rejected with thanks--politely, firmly, thankfully rejected. Fora moment I felt like a man falling. I began to see there was no veryclamourous demand for me in 'the great emporium', as Mr Greeley calledit. I began to see, or thought I did, why Hope had shied at my offer andwas now shunning me. I went to the Tribune office. Mr Greeley had goneto Washington; Mr Ottarson was too busy to see me. I concluded that Iwould be willing to take a place on one of the lesser journals. I spentthe day going from one office to another, but was rejected everywherewith thanks. I came home and sat down to take account of stock. First, Icounted my money, of which there were about fifty dollars left. As to mytalents, there were none left. Like the pies at the Hillsboroughtavern, if a man came late to dinner--they were all out. I had some fineclothes, but no more use for them than a goose for a peacock's feathers.I decided to take anything honourable as an occupation, even thoughit were not in one of the learned professions. I began to answeradvertisements and apply at business offices for something to give me aliving, but with no success. I began to feel the selfishness of men.God pity the warm and tender heart of youth when it begins to harden andgrow chill, as mine did then; to put away its cheery confidence forever;to make a new estimate of itself and others. Look out for that time, Oye good people! that have sons and daughters.I must say for myself that I had a mighty courage and no smallcapital of cheerfulness. I went to try my luck with the newspapers ofPhiladelphia, and there one of them kept me in suspense a week to nopurpose. When I came back reduced in cash and courage Hope had sailed.There was a letter from Uncle Eb telling me when and by what steamerthey were to leave. 'She will reach there a Friday,' he wrote, 'andwould like to see you that evening at Fuller's'.I had waited in Philadelphia, hoping I might have some word, to giveher a better thought of me, and, that night, after such a climax of illluck, well--I had need of prayer for a wayward tongue. I sent home agood account of my prospects. I could not bring myself to report failureor send for more money. I would sooner have gone to work in a scullery.Meanwhile my friends at the chalet were enough to keep me in good cheer.There were William McClingan, a Scotchman of a great gift of dignity anda nickname inseparably connected with his fame. He wrote leaders for abig weekly and was known as Waxy McClingan, to honour a pale ear of waxthat took the place of a member lost nobody could tell how. Hedrank deeply at times, but never to the loss of his dignity or selfpossession. In his cups the natural dignity of the man grew andexpanded. One could tell the extent of his indulgence by the degreeof his dignity. Then his mood became at once didactic and devotional.Indeed, I learned in good time of the rumour that he had lost his ear inan argument about the Scriptures over at Edinburgh.I remember he came an evening, soon after my arrival at the chalet,when dinner was late. His dignity was at the full. He sat awhile in grimsilence, while a sense of injury grew in his bosom.'Mrs Opper,' said he, in a grandiose manner and voice that nicelytrilled the r's, 'in the fourth chapter and ninth verse of Lamentationsyou will find these words--here he raised his voice a bit and beganto tap the palm of his left hand with the index finger of his right,continuing: "They that be slain with the sword are better than they thatbe slain with hunger. For these pine away stricken through want of thefruits of the field." Upon my honour as a gentleman, Mrs Opper, I wasnever so hungry in all my life.'The other boarder was a rather frail man with an easy cough and aconfidential manner, he wrote the 'Obituaries of Distinguished Persons'for one of the daily papers. Somebody had told him once, his headresembled that of Washington. He had never forgotten it, as I havereason to remember. His mind lived ever among the dead. His tongue waspickled in maxims; his heart sunk in the brine of recollection; hishumour not less unconscious and familiar than that of an epitaph; hisname was Lemuel Framdin Force. To the public of his native city he hadintroduced Webster one fourth of July--a perennial topic of his lightermoments.I fell an easy victim to the obituary editor that first evening in thechalet. We had risen from the table and he came and held me a momentby the coat lapel. He released my collar, when he felt sure of me, andbegan tapping my chest with his forefinger to drive home his point. Istood for quite an hour out of sheer politeness. By that time he had meforced to the wall--a God's mercy, for there I got some sense of reliefin the legs. His gestures, in imitation of the great Webster, put myhead in some peril. Meanwhile he continued drumming upon my chest.I looked longingly at the empty chairs. I tried to cut him off withapplause that should be condusive and satisfying, but with no success.It had only a stimulating effect. I felt somehow like a cheap hired manbadly overworked. I had lost all connection. I looked, and smiled, andnodded, and exclaimed, and heard nothing. I began to plan a method ofescape. McClingan--the great and good Waxy McClingan--came out of hisroom presently and saw my plight.'What is this?' he asked, interrupting, 'a serial stawry?Getting no answer he called my name, and when Force had paused he camenear.'In the sixth chapter and fifth verse of Proverbs,' said he, 'it iswritten:"Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter and as a bird fromthe hand of the fowler." Deliver thyself, Brower.I did so, ducking under Force's arm and hastening to my chamber.'Ye have a brawling, busy tongue, man,' I heard McClingan saying. 'Bythe Lord! ye should know a dull tongue is sharper than a serpent'stooth.'You are a meddlesome fellow,' said Force.'If I were you,' said McClingan, 'I would go and get for myself the longear of an ass and empty my memory into it every day. Try it, man. Giveit your confidence exclusively. Believe me, my dear Force, you would wingolden opinions.'It would be better than addressing an ear of wax,' said Force,hurriedly withdrawing to his own room.This answer made McClingan angry.'Better an ear of wax than a brain of putty,' he called after him.'Blessed is he that hath no ears when a fool's tongue is busy,' and thenstrode up and down the floor, muttering ominously.I came out of my room shortly, and then he motioned me aside.'Pull your own trigger first, man,' he said to me in a low tone. 'Whenye see he's going to shoot, pull your own trigger first. Go right up tohim and tap him on the chest quiddy and say, "My dear Force, I have aglawrious stawry to tell you," and keep tapping him--his own trick, youknow, and he can't complain. Now he has a weak chest, and when he beginsto cough--man, you are saved.Our host, Opper, entered presently, and in removing the tableclothinadvertently came between us. McClingan resented it promptly.'Mr Opper,' said he, leering at the poor German, 'as a matter ofpersonal obligement, will you cease to interrupt us?'All right! all right! gentlemens,' he replied, and then, fearing thathe had not quite squared himself, turned back, at the kitchen door, andadded, 'Oxcuse me.McClingan looked at him with that leering superior smile of his, andgave him just the slightest possible nod of his head.McClingan came into my room with me awhile then. He had been everywhere,it seemed to me, and knew everybody worth knowing. I was much interestedin his anecdotes of the great men of the time. Unlike the obituaryeditor his ear was quite as ready as his tongue, though I said littlesave now and then to answer a question that showed a kindly interest inme.I went with him to his room at last, where he besought me to join him indrinking 'confusion to the enemies of peace and order'. On my refusing,he drank the toast alone and shortly proposed 'death to slavery'.This was followed in quick succession by 'death to the arch traitor,Buchanan'; 'peace to the soul of John Brown'; 'success to Honest Abe'and then came a hearty 'here's to the protuberant abdomen of the Mayor'.I left him at midnight standing in the middle of his room and singing'The Land o' the Leal' in a low tone savoured with vast dignity.Chapter 35I was soon near out of money and at my wit's end, but my will wasunconquered. In this plight I ran upon Fogarty, the policeman who hadbeen the good angel of my one hopeful day in journalism. His mannerinvited my confidence.'What luck?' said he.'Bad luck' I answered. 'Only ten dollars in my pocket and nothing todo.'He swung his stick thoughtfully.'If I was you,' said he, 'I'd take anything honest. Upon me wurred, I'druther pound rocks than lay idle.''So would I.''Wud ye?' said he with animation, as he took my measure from head tofoot.'I'll do anything that's honest.''Ah ha!' said he, rubbing his sandy chin whiskers. 'Don't seem like ye'dbeen used to hard wurruk.''But I can do it,' I said.He looked at me sternly and beckoned with his head.'Come along,' said he.He took me to a gang of Irishmen working in the street near by.'Boss McCormick!' he shouted.A hearty voice answered, 'Aye, aye, Counsellor,' and McCormick came outof the crowd, using his shovel for a staff.'A happy day to ye!' said Fogarty.'Same to youse an' manny o' thim,' said McCormick.'Ye'll gi'me one if ye do me a favour,' said Fogarty.'An' what?' said the other.'A job for this lad. Wull ye do it?''I wall,' said McCormick, and he did.I went to work early the next morning, with nothing on but myunderclothing and trousers, save a pair of gloves, that excited theridicule of my fellows. With this livery and the righteous determinationof earning two dollars a day, I began the inelegant task of 'poundingrocks no merry occupation, I assure you, for a hot summer's day onManhattan Island.We were paving Park Place and we had to break stone and lay them andshovel dirt and dig with a pick and crowbar.My face and neck were burned crimson when we quit work at five, and Iwent home with a feeling of having been run over by the cars. I hada strong sense of soul and body, the latter dominated by a mightyappetite. McClingan viewed me at first with suspicion in which therewas a faint flavour of envy. He invited me at once to his room, and wasamazed at seeing it was no lark. I told him frankly what I was doing andwhy and where.'I would not mind the loaning of a few dollars,' he said, 'as a mattero' personal obligement I would be most happy to do it--most happy,Brower, indeed I would.'I thanked him cordially, but declined the favour, for at home they hadalways taught me the danger of borrowing, and I was bound to have it outwith ill luck on my own resources.'Greeley is back,' said he, 'and I shall see him tomorrow. I will puthim in mind o'you.'I went away sore in the morning, but with no drooping spirit. In themiddle of the afternoon I straightened up a moment to ease my back andlook about me.There at the edge of the gang stood the great Horace Greeley and WaxyMcClingan. The latter beckoned me as he caught my eye. I went aside togreet them. Mr Greeley gave me his hand.'Do you mean to tell me that you'd rather work than beg or borrow?' saidhe.'That's about it,' I answered.'And ain't ashamed of it?'Ashamed! Why?' said I, not quite sure of his meaning. It had neveroccurred to me that one had any cause to be ashamed of working.He turned to McClingan and laughed.'I guess you'll do for the Tribune,' he said. 'Come and see me at twelvetomorrow.And then they went away.If I had been a knight of the garter I could not have been treated withmore distinguished courtesy by those hard-handed men the rest of theday. I bade them goodbye at night and got my order for four dollars. OnePat Devlin, a great-hearted Irishman, who had shared my confidence andsome of my doughnuts on the curb at luncheon time, I remember best ofall.'Ye'll niver fergit the toime we wurruked together under BossMcCormick,' said he.And to this day, whenever I meet the good man, now bent and grey, hesays always, 'Good-day to ye, Mr Brower. D'ye mind the toime we poundedthe rock under Boss McCormick?Mr Greeley gave me a place at once on the local staff and invited meto dine with him at his home that evening. Meanwhile he sent me to theheadquarters of the Republican Central Campaign Committee, on Broadway,opposite the New York Hotel. Lincoln had been nominated in May, and thegreat political fight of 1860 was shaking the city with its thunders.I turned in my copy at the city desk in good season, and, although thegreat editor had not yet left his room, I took a car at once to keep myappointment. A servant showed me to a seat in the big back parlour ofMr Greeley's home, where I spent a lonely hour before I heard his heavyfootsteps in the hail. He immediately rushed upstairs, two steps at atime, and, in a moment, I heard his high voice greeting the babies. Hecame down shortly with one of them clinging to his hand.'Thunder!' said he, 'I had forgotten all about you. Let's go right in todinner.He sat at the head of the table and I next to him. I remember how,wearied by the day's burden, he sat, lounging heavily, in carelessattitudes. He stirred his dinner into a hash of eggs, potatoes, squashand parsnips, and ate it leisurely with a spoon, his head braced oftenwith his left forearm, its elbow resting on the table. It was a sort ofletting go, after the immense activity of the day, and a casual observerwould have thought he affected the uncouth, which was not true of him.He asked me to tell him all about my father and his farm. At length Isaw an absent look in his eye, and stopped talking, because I thought hehad ceased to listen.'Very well! very well!' said he.I looked up at him, not knowing what he meant.'Go on! Tell me all about it,' he added.'I like the country best,' said he, when I had finished, 'because thereI see more truth in things. Here the lie has many forms--unique, varied,ingenious. The rouge and powder on the lady's cheek--they are lies, bothof them; the baronial and ducal crests are lies and the fools who usethem are liars; the people who soak themselves in rum have nothing butlies in their heads; the multitude who live by their wits and the lackof them in others--they are all liars; the many who imagine a vain thingand pretend to be what they are not liars everyone of them. It is boundto be so in the great cities, and it is a mark of decay. The skirts ofElegabalus, the wigs and rouge pots of Madame Pompadour, the crucifix ofMachiavelli and the innocent smile of Fernando Wood stand for somethinghorribly and vastly false in the people about them. For truth you ve gotto get back into the woods. You can find men there a good deal as Godmade them, genuine, strong and simple. When those men cease to come hereyou'll see grass growing in Broadway.I made no answer and the great commoner stirred his coffee a moment insilence.'Vanity is the curse of cities,' he continued, 'and Flattery is itshandmaiden. Vanity, flattery and Deceit are the three disgraces. I likea man to be what he is--out and out. If he's ashamed of himself it won'tbe long before his friends'll be ashamed of him. There's the troublewith this town. Many a fellow is pretending to be what he isn't. A mancannot be strong unless he is genuine.One of his children--a little girl--came and stood close to him as hespoke. He put his big arm around her and that gentle, permanent smile ofhis broadened as he kissed her and patted her red cheek.'Anything new in the South?' Mrs Greeley enquired.'Worse and worse every day,' he said. 'Serious trouble coming! TheCharleston dinner yesterday was a feast of treason and a flow ofcriminal rhetoric. The Union was the chief dish. Everybody slashed itwith his knife and jabbed it with his fork. It was slaughtered, roasted,made into mincemeat and devoured. One orator spoke of "rolling back thetide of fanaticism that finds its root in the conscience of the people."Their metaphors are as bad as their morals.He laughed heartily at this example of fervid eloquence, and then werose from the table. He had to go to the office that evening, and I cameaway soon after dinner. I had nothing to do and went home reflectingupon all the great man had said.I began shortly to see the truth of what he had told me--men lickingthe hand of riches with the tongue of flattery, men so stricken with theitch of vanity that they grovelled for the touch of praise; men even whowould do perjury for applause. I do not say that most of the men I sawwere of that ilk, but enough to show the tendency of life in a greattown.I was filled with wonder at first by meeting so many who had beeneverywhere and seen everything, who had mastered all sciences and allphilosophies and endured many perils on land and sea. I had met liarsbefore--it was no Eden there in the north country--and some of them hadattained a good degree of efficiency, but they lacked the candour andfinish of the metropolitan school. I confess they were all too muchfor me at first. They borrowed my cash, they shared my confidence, theytaxed my credulity, and I saw the truth at last.'Tom's breaking down,' said a co-labourer on the staff one day. 'How isthat?' I enquired.'Served me a mean trick.''Indeed!''Deceived me,' said he sorrowfully.'Lied, I suppose?''No. He told the truth, as God's my witness.'Tom had been absolutely reliable up to that time.Chapter 36Those were great days in mid autumn. The Republic was in grave peril ofdissolution. Liberty that had hymned her birth in the last centurynow hymned her destiny in the voices of bard and orator. Crowds ofmen gathered in public squares, at bulletin boards, on street cornersarguing, gesticulating, exclaiming and cursing. Cheering multitudes wentup and down the city by night, with bands and torches, and there wassuch a howl of oratory and applause on the lower half of ManhattanIsland that it gave the reporter no rest. William H. Seward, CharlesSumner, John A. Dix, Henry Ward Beecher and Charles O'Connor were thegiants of the stump. There was more violence and religious fervour inthe political feeling of that time than had been mingled since '76. Asense of outrage was in the hearts of men. 'Honest Abe' Lincoln stood,as they took it, for their homes and their country, for human libertyand even for their God.I remember coming into the counting-room late one evening. Loud voiceshad halted me as I passed the door. Mr Greeley stood back of thecounter; a rather tall, wiry grey-headed man before it. Each was shakinga right fist under the other's nose. They were shouting loudly as theyargued. The stranger was for war; Mr Greeley for waiting. The publisherof the Tribune stood beside the latter, smoking a pipe; a small manleaned over the counter at the stranger's elbow, putting in a word hereand there; half a dozen people stood by, listening. Mr Greeley turned tohis publisher in a moment.'Rhoades,' said he, 'I wish ye'd put these men out. They holler 'n yell,so I can't hear myself think.Then there was a general laugh.I learned to my surprise, when they had gone, that the tall man wasWilliam H. Seward, the other John A. Dix.Then one of those fevered days came the Prince of Wales--a Godsend, toallay passion with curiosity.It was my duty to handle some of 'the latest news by magnetictelegraph', and help to get the plans and progress of the campaign atheadquarters. The Printer, as they called Mr Greeley, was at his deskwhen I came in at noon, never leaving the office but for dinner, untilpast midnight, those days. And he made the Tribune a mighty power in thestate. His faith in its efficacy was sublime, and every line went underhis eye before it went to his readers. I remember a night when he calledme to his office about twelve o clock. He was up to his knees in therubbish of the day-newspapers that he had read and thrown upon thefloor; his desk was littered with proofs.'Go an' see the Prince o' Wales,' he said. (That interesting young manhad arrived on the Harriet Lane that morning and ridden up Broadwaybetween cheering hosts.) 'I've got a sketch of him here an' it's alltwaddle. Tell us something new about him. If he's got a hole in his sockwe ought to know it.'Mr Dana came in to see him while I was there.'Look here, Dana,' said the Printer, in a rasping humour. 'By the godsof war! here's two columns about that performance at the Academy andonly two sticks of the speech of Seward at St Paul. I'll have to getsomeone to go an' burn that theatre an' send the bill to me.In the morning Mayor Wood introduced me to the Duke of Newcastle, whoin turn presented me to the Prince of Wales--then a slim, blue-eyedyoungster of nineteen, as gentle mannered as any I have ever met. It wasmy unpleasant duty to keep as near as possible to the royal party in allthe festivities of that week.The ball, in the Prince's honour, at the Academy of Music, was one ofthe great social events of the century. No fair of vanity in the westernhemisphere ever quite equalled it. The fashions of the French Court hadtaken the city, as had the Prince, by unconditional surrender. Not inthe palace of Versailles could one have seen a more generous exposure ofthe charms of fair women. None were admitted without a low-cut bodice,and many came that had not the proper accessories. But it was the mostbrilliant company New York had ever seen.Too many tickets had been distributed and soon 'there was an elbow onevery rib and a heel on every toe', as Mr Greeley put it. Every miss andher mamma tiptoed for a view of the Prince and his party, who came in atten, taking their seats on a dais at one side of the crowded floor.The Prince sat with his hands folded before him, like one in a reverie.Beside him were the Duke of Newcastle, a big, stern man, with anaggressive red beard; the blithe and sparkling Earl of St Germans, thenSteward of the Royal Household; the curly Major Teasdale; the gay Bruce,a major-general, who behaved himself always like a lady. Suddenly thefloor sank beneath the crowd of people, who retired in some disorder.Such a compression of crinoline was never seen as at that moment, whenperiphery pressed upon periphery, and held many a man captive in thecold embrace of steel and whalebone. The royal party retired to itsrooms again and carpenters came in with saws and hammers. The floorrepaired, an area was roped off for dancing--as much as could be spared.The Prince opened the dance with Mrs Governor Morgan, after which otherladies were honoured with his gallantry.I saw Mrs Fuller in one of the boxes and made haste to speak withher. She had just landed, having left Hope to study a time in theConservatory of Leipzig.'Mrs Livingstone is with her,' said she, 'and they will return togetherin April.'Mrs Fuller, did she send any word to me?' I enquired anxiously. 'Didshe give you no message?'None,' she said coldly, 'except one to her mother and father, which Ihave sent in a letter to them.I left her heavy hearted, went to the reporter's table and wrote mystory, very badly I must admit, for I was cut deep with sadness. Then Icame away and walked for hours, not caring whither. A great homesicknesshad come over me. I felt as if a talk with Uncle Eb or Elizabeth Browerwould have given me the comfort I needed. I walked rapidly through dark,deserted streets. A steeple clock was striking two, when I heard someonecoming hurriedly on the walk behind me. I looked over my shoulder, butcould not make him out in the darkness, and yet there was somethingfamiliar in the step. As he came near I felt his hand upon my shoulder.'Better go home, Brower,' he said, as I recognised the voice ofTrumbull. 'You've been out a long time. Passed you before tonight.''Why didn't you speak?''You were preoccupied.''Not keeping good hours yourself,' I said.'Rather late,' he answered, 'but I am a walker, and I love the night. Itis so still in this part of the town.'We were passing the Five Points.'When do you sleep,' I enquired.'Never sleep at night,' he said, 'unless uncommonly tired. Out everynight more or less. Sleep two hours in the morning and two in theafternoon--that's all I require. Seen the hands o' that clock yonder onevery hour of the night.'He pointed to a lighted dial in a near tower.Stopping presently he looked down at a little waif asleep in a doorway,a bundle of evening papers under his arm. He lifted him tenderly.'Here, boy,' he said, dropping corns in the pocket of the ragged littlecoat, 'I'll take those papers--you go home now.We walked to the river, passing few save members of 'the force, whoalways gave Trumbull a cheery 'hello, Cap!' We passed wharves where thegreat sea horses lay stalled, with harnesses hung high above them, theirnoses nodding over our heads; we stood awhile looking up at the loomingmasts, the lights of the river craft.'Guess I've done some good,' said he turning into Peck Slip. 'Savedtwo young women. Took 'em off the streets. Fine women now both ofthem--respectable, prosperous, and one is beautiful. Man who's got amother, or a sister, can't help feeling sorry for such people.We came up Frankfort to William Street where we shook hands and partedand I turned up Monkey Hill. I had made unexpected progress withTrumbull that night. He had never talked to me so freely before andsomehow he had let me come nearer to him than I had ever hoped to be.His company had lifted me out of the slough a little and my mind was ona better footing as I neared the chalet.Riggs's shop was lighted--an unusual thing at so late an hour. Peeringthrough the window I saw Riggs sleeping at his desk An old tin lanternsat near, its candle burning low, with a flaring flame, that threwa spray of light upon him as it rose and fell. Far back in the shopanother light was burning dimly. I lifted the big iron latch and pushedthe door open. Riggs did not move. I closed the door softly and wentback into the gloom. The boy was also sound asleep in his chair.The lantern light flared and fell again as water leaps in a stoppingfountain. As it dashed upon the face of Riggs I saw his eyes half-open.I went close to his chair. As I did so the light went out and smoke roseabove the lantern with a rank odour.'Riggs!' I called but he sat motionless and made no answer.The moonlight came through the dusty window lighting his face andbeard. I put my hand upon his brow and withdrew it quickly. I was inthe presence of death. I opened the door and called the sleeping boy. Herose out of his chair and came toward me rubbing his eyes.'Your master is dead,' I whispered, 'go and call an officer.Riggs's dream was over--he had waked at last. He was in port and I doubtnot Annie and his mother were hailing him on the shore, for I knew nowthey had both died far back in that long dream of the old sailor.My story of Riggs was now complete. It soon found a publisher because itwas true.'All good things are true in literature,' said the editor after he hadread it. 'Be a servant of Truth always and you will be successful.'Chapter 37As soon as Lincoln was elected the attitude of the South showed clearlythat 'the irrepressible conflict', of Mr Seward's naming, had only justbegun. The Herald gave columns every day to the news of 'the comingRevolution', as it was pleased to call it. There was loud talk of war atand after the great Pine Street meeting of December 15. South Carolinaseceded, five days later, and then we knew what was coming, albeit, wesaw only the dim shadow of that mighty struggle that was to shake theearth for nearly five years. The Printer grew highly irritable thosedays and spoke of Buchanan and Davis and Toombs in language so violentit could never have been confined in type. But while a bitter foe nonewas more generous than he and, when the war was over, his money went tobail the very man he had most roundly damned.I remember that one day, when he was sunk deep in composition, a negrocame and began with grand airs to make a request as delegate from hiscampaign club. The Printer sat still, his eyes close to the paper, hispen flying at high speed. The coloured orator went on lifting hisvoice in a set petition. Mr Greeley bent to his work as the man waxedeloquent. A nervous movement now and then betrayed the Printer'sirritation. He looked up, shortly, his face kindling with anger.'Help! For God's sake!' he shrilled impatiently, his hands flying in theair. The Printer seemed to be gasping for breath.'Go and stick your head out of the window and get through,' he shoutedhotly to the man.He turned to his writing--a thing dearer to him than a new bone to ahungry dog.'Then you may come and tell me what you want,' he added in a mildertone.Those were days when men said what they meant and their meaning had morefight in it than was really polite or necessary. Fight was in the airand before I knew it there was a wild, devastating spirit in my ownbosom, insomuch that I made haste to join a local regiment. It grewapace but not until I saw the first troops on their way to the war was Ifully determined to go and give battle with my regiment.The town was afire with patriotism. Sumter had fallen; Lincoln hadissued his first call. The sound of the fife and drum rang in thestreets. Men gave up work to talk and listen or go into the sternerbusiness of war. Then one night in April, a regiment came out of NewEngland, on its way to the front. It lodged at the Astor House to leaveat nine in the morning. Long before that hour the building was flankedand fronted with tens of thousands, crowding Broadway for three blocks,stuffing the wide mouth of Park Row and braced into Vesey and BardayStreets. My editor assigned me to this interesting event. I stood in thecrowd, that morning, and saw what was really the beginning of the war inNew York. There was no babble of voices, no impatient call, no soundof idle jeering such as one is apt to hear in a waiting crowd. It stoodsilent, each man busy with the rising current of his own emotions,solemnified by the faces all around him. The soldiers filed out upon thepavement, the police having kept a way clear for them, Still there wassilence in the crowd save that near me I could hear a man sobbing. Atrumpeter lifted his bugle and sounded a bar of the reveille. The clearnotes clove the silent air, flooding every street about us with theirsilver sound. Suddenly the band began playing. The tune was YankeeDoodle. A wild, dismal, tremulous cry came out of a throat near me.It grew and spread to a mighty roar and then such a shout went up toHeaven, as I had never heard, and as I know full well I shall neverhear again. It was like the riving of thunderbolts above the roar offloods--elemental, prophetic, threatening, ungovernable. It did seem tome that the holy wrath of God Almighty was in that cry of the people.It was a signal. It declared that they were ready to give all that a manmay give for that he loves--his life and things far dearer to him thanhis life. After that, they and their sons begged for a chance to throwthemselves into the hideous ruin of war.I walked slowly back to the office and wrote my article. When thePrinter came in at twelve I went to his room before he had had time tobegin work.'Mr Greeley,' I said, 'here is my resignation. I am going to the war.'His habitual smile gave way to a sober look as he turned to me, his bigwhite coat on his arm. He pursed his lips and blew thoughtfully. Then hethrew his coat in a chair and wiped his eyes with his handkerchief.'Well! God bless you, my boy,' he said. 'I wish I could go, too.'Chapter 38I worked some weeks before my regiment was sent forward. I planned tobe at home for a day, but they needed me on the staff, and I dreaded thepain of a parting, the gravity of which my return would serve only toaccentuate. So I wrote them a cheerful letter, and kept at work. It wasmy duty to interview some of the great men of that day as to the courseof the government. I remember Commodore Vanderbilt came down to see mein shirt-sleeves and slippers that afternoon, with a handkerchief tiedabout his neck in place of a collar--a blunt man, of simple manners anda big heart, one who spoke his mind in good, plain talk, and, I suppose,he got along with as little profanity as possible, considering his manycares. He called me 'boy' and spoke of a certain public man as a 'bigsucker'. I soon learned that to him a 'sucker' was the lowest andmeanest thing in the world. He sent me away with nothing but a greatadmiration of him. As a rule, the giants of that day were plain men ofthe people, with no frills upon them, and with a way of hitting fromthe shoulder. They said what they meant and meant it hard. I have heardLincoln talk when his words had the whiz of a bullet and his arm thejerk of a piston.John Trumbull invited McClingan, of whom I had told him much, and myselfto dine with him an evening that week. I went in my new dress suit--thatmark of sinful extravagance for which Fate had brought me down to thepounding of rocks under Boss McCormick. Trumbull's rooms were a feastfor the eye--aglow with red roses. He introduced me to Margaret Hull andher mother, who were there to dine with us. She was a slight womanof thirty then, with a face of no striking beauty, but of singularsweetness. Her dark eyes had a mild and tender light in them; her voicea plaintive, gentle tone, the like of which one may hear rarely if ever.For years she had been a night worker in the missions of the lower city,and many an unfortunate had been turned from the way of evil by her goodoffices. I sat beside her at the table, and she told me of her work andhow often she had met Trumbull in his night walks.'Found me a hopeless heathen,' he remarked.'To save him I had to consent to marry him,' she said, laughing.'"Who hath found love is already in Heaven,"'said McClingan. 'I have notfound it and I am in'' he hesitated, as if searching for a synonym.'A boarding house on William Street,' he added.The remarkable thing about Margaret Hull was her simple faith. It lookedto no glittering generality for its reward, such as the soul's highestgood, much talked of in the philosophy of that time. She believed that,for every soul she saved, one jewel would be added to her crown inHeaven. And yet she wore no jewel upon her person. Her black costume wasbeautifully fitted to her fine form, but was almost severely plain. Itoccurred to me that she did not quite understand her own heart, and, forthat matter, who does? But she had somewhat in her soul that passeth allunderstanding--I shall not try to say what, with so little knowledge ofthose high things, save that I know it was of God. To what patience andunwearying effort she had schooled herself I was soon to know.'Can you not find anyone to love you?' she said, turning to McClingan.'You know the Bible says it is not good for man to live alone.'It does, Madame,' said he, 'but I have a mighty fear in me, rememberingthe twenty-fourth verse of the twenty-fifth chapter of Proverbs: "Itis better to dwell in the corner of the housetops than with a brawlingwoman in a wide house." We cannot all be so fortunate as our friendTrumbull. But I have felt the great passion.He smiled at her faintly as he spoke in a quiet manner, his r s comingoff his tongue with a stately roll. His environment and the company hadgiven him a fair degree of stimulation. There was a fine dignity inhis deep voice, and his body bristled with it, from his stiff andheavy shock of blonde hair parted carefully on the left side, to hishigh-heeled boots. The few light hairs that stood in lonely abandonmenton his upper lip, the rest of his lean visage always well shorn, had nosmall part in the grand effect of McClingan.'A love story!' said Miss Hull. 'I do wish I had your confidence. I likea real, true love story.'A simple stawry it is,' said McClingan, 'and Jam proud of my part init. I shall be glad to tell the stawry if you are to hear it.'We assured him of our interest.'Well,' said he, 'there was one Tom Douglass at Edinburgh who was myfriend and classmate. We were together a good bit of the time, andwhen we had come to the end of our course we both went to engage injournalism at Glasgow. We had a mighty conceit of ourselves--you knowhow it is, Brower, with a green lad--but we were a mind to be modest,with all our learning, so we made an agreement: I would blaw his hornand he would blaw mine. We were not to lack appreciation. He was on onepaper and I on another, and every time he wrote an article I went up anddown the office praising him for a man o' mighty skill, and he did thesame for me. If anyone spoke of him in my hearing I said every word offlattery at my command. "What Tom Douglass?" I would say, "the man o'the Herald that's written those wonderful articles from the law court?A genius, sir! an absolute genius!" Well, we were rapidly gainingreputation. One of those days I found myself in love with as comely alass as ever a man courted. Her mother had a proper curiosity as to mycharacter. I referred them to Tom Douglass of the Herald--he was theonly man there who had known me well. The girl and her mother both wentto him."Your friend was just here," said the young lady, when I called again."He is a very handsome man."'"And a noble man!" I said.'"And didn't I hear you say that he was a very skilful man, too?"'"A genius!" I answered, "an absolute genius!"McClingan stopped and laughed heartily as he took a sip of water.'What happened then?' said Miss I-lull.'She took him on my recommendation,' he answered. 'She said that, whilehe had the handsomer face, I had the more eloquent tongue. And they bothwon for him. And, upon me honour as a gentleman, it was the luckiestthing that ever happened to me, for she became a brawler and a scold. Mymother says there is "no the like o' her in Scotland".I shall never forget how fondly Margaret Hull patted the brown cheek ofTrumbull with her delicate white band, as we rose.'We all have our love stawries,' said McClingan.'Mine is better than yours,' she answered, 'but it shall never be told.''Except one little part if it,' said Trumbull, as he put his hands uponher shoulders, and looked down into her face. 'It is the only thing thathas made my life worth living.'Then she made us to know many odd things about her work for the childrenof misfortune--inviting us to come and see it for ourselves. We were togo the next evening.I finished my work at nine that night and then we walked through noisomestreets and alleys--New York was then far from being so clean a city asnow--to the big mission house. As we came in at the door we saw a groupof women kneeling before the altar at the far end of the room, and heardthe voice of Margaret Hull praying, a voice so sweet and tender that webowed our heads at once, and listened while it quickened the life in us.She plead for the poor creatures about her, to whom Christ gave alwaysthe most abundant pity, seeing they were more sinned against thansinning. There was not a word of cant in her petition. It was full ofa simple, unconscious eloquence, a higher feeling than I dare try todefine. And when it was over she had won their love and confidence sothat they clung to her hands and kissed them and wet them with theirtears. She came and spoke to us presently, in the same sweet manner thathad charmed us the night before, there was no change in it. We offeredto walk home with her, but she said Trumbull was coming at twelve.'So that is "The Little Mother" of whom I have heard so often,' saidMcClingan, as we came away.'What do you think of her?' I enquired.'Wonderful woman!' he said. 'I never heard such a voice. It gives mevisions. Every other is as the crackling of thorns under a pot.'I came back to the office and went into Mr Greeley's room to bid himgoodbye. He stood by the gas jet, in a fine new suit of clothes, readinga paper, while a boy was blacking one of his boots. I sat down, awaitinga more favourable moment. A very young man had come into the room andstood timidly holding his hat.'I wish to see Mr Greeley,' he said.'There he is,' I answered, 'go and speak to him.''Mr Greeley,' said he, 'I have called to see if you can take me on theTribune.'The Printer continued reading as if he were the only man in the room.The young man looked at him and then at me--with an expression thatmoved me to a fellow feeling. He was a country boy, more green and timideven than I had been.'He did not hear you--try again,' I said.'Mr Greeley,' said he, louder than before, 'I have called to see if youcan take me on the Tribune.'The editor's eyes glanced off at the boy and returned to their reading.'No, boy, I can't,' he drawled, shifting his eyes to another article.And the boy, who was called to the service of the paper in time, but notuntil after his pen had made him famous, went away with a look of bitterdisappointment.In his attire Mr Greeley wore always the best material, that soon tookon a friendless and dejected look. The famous white overcoat had beenbought for five dollars of a man who had come by chance to the officeof the New Yorker, years before, and who considered its purchase agreat favour. That was a time when the price of a coat was a thing ofno little importance to the Printer. Tonight there was about him a greatglow, such as comes of fine tailoring and new linen.He was so preoccupied with his paper that I went out into the big roomand sat down, awaiting a better time.'The Printer's going to Washington to talk with the president,' said aneditor.Just then Mr Greeley went running hurriedly up the spiral stair on hisway to the typeroom. Three or four compositors had gone up ahead ofhim. He had risen out of sight when we heard a tremendous uproar abovestairs. I ran up, two steps at a time, while the high voice of MrGreeley came pouring down upon me like a flood. It had a wild, fleetingtone. He stood near the landing, swinging his arms and swearing like aboy just learning how. In the middle of the once immaculate shirt bosomwas a big, yellow splash. Something had fallen on him and spattered asit struck. We stood well out of range, looking at it, undeniably thestain of nicotine. In a voice that was no encouragement to confession hedared 'the drooling idiot' to declare himself. In a moment he opened hiswaistcoat and surveyed the damage.'Look at that!' he went on, complainingly. 'Ugh! The reeking, filthy,slobbering idiot! I'd rather be slain with the jaw bone of an ass.''You'll have to get another shirt,' said the pressman, who stood near.'You can't go to Washington with such a breast pin.''I'd breast pin him if I knew who he was,' said the editor.A number of us followed him downstairs and a young man went up theBowery for a new shirt. When it came the Printer took off the soiledgarment, flinging it into a corner, and I helped him to put himself inproper fettle again. This finished, he ran away, hurriedly, with hiscarpet-bag, and I missed the opportunity I wanted for a brief talk withhim.Chapter 39My regiment left New York by night in a flare of torch and rocket. Thestreets were lined with crowds now hardened to the sound of fife anddrum and the pomp of military preparation. I had a very high and mightyfeeling in me that wore away in the discomfort of travel. For hoursafter the train started we sang and told stories, and ate peanuts andpulled and hauled at each other in a cloud of tobacco smoke. The trainwas sidetracked here and there, and dragged along at a slow pace.Young men with no appreciation, as it seemed to me, of the sad businesswe were off upon, went roistering up and down the aisles, drinking outof bottles and chasing around the train as it halted. These revellersgrew quiet as the night wore on. The boys began to close their eyesand lie back for rest. Some lay in the aisle, their heads upon theirknapsacks. The air grew chilly and soon I could hear them snoring allabout me and the chatter of frogs in the near marshes. I closed my eyesand vainly courted sleep. A great sadness had lain hold of me. I hadalready given up my life for my country--I was only going away now toget as dear a price for it as possible in the hood of its enemies. Whenand where would it be taken? I wondered. The fear had mostly gone outof me in days and nights of solemn thinking. The feeling I had, with itsflavour of religion, is what has made the volunteer the mighty soldierhe has ever been, I take it, since Naseby and Marston Moor. The soul isthe great Captain, and with a just quarrel it will warm its sword in theenemy, however he may be trained to thrust and parry. In my sacrificethere was but one reservation--I hoped I should not be horribly cut witha sword or a bayonet. I had written a long letter to Hope, who was yetat Leipzig. I wondered if she would care what became of me. I got asense of comfort thinking I would show her that I was no coward, withall my littleness. I had not been able to write to Uncle Eb or to myfather or mother in any serious tone of my feeling in this enterprise.I had treated it as a kind of holiday from which I should return shortlyto visit them.All about me seemed to be sleeping--some of them were talking in theirdreams. As it grew light, one after another rose and stretched himself,rousing his seat companion. The train halted, a man shot a musket voicein at the car door. It was loaded with the many syllables of 'AnnapolisJunction'. We were pouring out of the train shortly, to bivouac forbreakfast in the depot yard. So I began the life of a soldier, and howit ended with me many have read in better books than this, but my storyof it is here and only here.We went into camp there on the lonely flats of east Maryland for a dayor two, as we supposed, but really for quite two weeks. In the longdelay that followed, my way traversed the dead levels of routine. WhenSouthern sympathy had ceased to wreak its wrath upon the railroads aboutBaltimore we pushed on to Washington. There I got letters from Uncle Eband Elizabeth Brower. The former I have now in my box of treasures--atorn and faded remnant of that dark period.DEAR SIR 'pen in hand to hat you know that we are all wel. also that wewas sorry you could not come horn. They took on terribul. Hope she wrotea letter. Said she had not herd from you. also that somebody wrote toher you was goin to be married. You had oughter write her a letter,Bill. Looks to me so you hain't used her right. Shes a comm horn inJuly. Sowed corn to day in the gardin. David is off byin catul. I hopeGod will take care uv you, boy, so goodbye from yours trulyEBEN HOLDENI wrote immediately to Uncle Eb and told him of the letters I had sentto Hope, and of my effort to see her.Late in May, after Virginia had seceded, some thirty thousand of us weresent over to the south side of the Potomac, where for weeks we tore theflowery fields, lining the shore with long entrenchments.Meantime I wrote three letters to Mr Greeley, and had the satisfactionof seeing them in the Tribune. I took much interest in the camp drill,and before we crossed the river I had been raised to the rank of firstlieutenant. Every day we were looking for the big army of Beauregard,camping below Centreville, some thirty miles south.Almost every night a nervous picket set the camp in uproar bychallenging a phantom of his imagination. We were all impatient ashounds in leash. Since they would not come up and give us battle wewanted to be off and have it out with them. And the people were tired ofdelay. The cry of 'ste'boy!' was ringing all over the north. They wantedto cut us loose and be through with dallying.Well, one night the order came; we were to go south in themorning--thirty thousand of us, and put an end to the war. We did notget away until afternoon--it was the 6th of July. When we were off,horse and foot, so that I could see miles of the blue column before andbehind me, I felt sorry for the mistaken South. On the evening of the18th our camp-fires on either side of the pike at Centreville glowedlike the lights of a city. We knew the enemy was near, and began to feela tightening of the nerves. I wrote a letter to the folks at home forpost mortem delivery, and put it into my trousers pocket. A friend in mycompany called me aside after mess.'Feel of that,' he said, laying his hand on a full breast.'Feathers!' he whispered significantly. 'Balls can't go through 'em, yeknow. Better n a steel breastplate! Want some?'Don't know but I do,' said I.We went into his tent, where he had a little sack full, and put a goodwad of them between my two shirts.'I hate the idee o'bein'hit 'n the heart,' he said. 'That's too awful.I nodded my assent.'Shouldn't like t'have a ball in my lungs, either,' he added. ''Tain'tnecessary fer a man t'die if he can only breathe. If a man gits hisleg shot off an' don't lose his head an' keeps drawin' his breath rightalong smooth an even, I don't see why he can't live.Taps sounded. We went asleep with our boots on, but nothing happened.Three days and nights we waited. Some called it a farce, some swore,some talked of going home. I went about quietly, my bosom under its padof feathers. The third day an order came from headquarters. We wereto break camp at one-thirty in the morning and go down the pikeafter Beauregard. In the dead of the night the drums sounded. I rose,half-asleep, and heard the long roll far and near. I shivered in thecold night air as I made ready, the boys about me buckled on knapsacks,shouldered their rifles, and fell into line. Muffled in darkness therewas an odd silence in the great caravan forming rapidly and waiting forthe word to move. At each command to move forward I could hear onlythe rub of leather, the click, click of rifle rings, the stir of thestubble, the snorting of horses. When we had marched an hour or so Icould hear the faint rumble of wagons far in the rear. As I came high ona hill top, in the bending column, the moonlight fell upon a leagueof bayonets shining above a cloud of dust in the valley--a splendidpicture, fading into darkness and mystery. At dawn we passed a bridgeand halted some three minutes for a bite. After a little march we leftthe turnpike, with Hunter's column bearing westward on a crossroad thatled us into thick woods. As the sunlight sank in the high tree-tops thefirst great battle of the war began. Away to the left of us a cannonshook the earth, hurling its boom into the still air. The sound rushedover us, rattling in the timber like a fall of rocks. Something wentquivering in me. It seemed as if my vitals had gone into a big lumpof jelly that trembled every step I took. We quickened our pace; wefretted, we complained. The weariness went out of our legs; some wantedto run. Before and behind us men were shouting hotly, 'Run, boys! run!'The cannon roar was now continuous. We could feel the quake of it. Whenwe came over a low ridge, in the open, we could see the smoke of battlein the valley. Flashes of fire and hoods of smoke leaped out of the farthickets, left of us, as cannon roared. Going at double quick we beganloosening blankets and haversacks, tossing them into heaps along theline of march, without halting. In half an hour we stood waiting inbattalions, the left flank of the enemy in front. We were to charge ata run. Half-way across the valley we were to break into companies and,advancing, spread into platoons and squads, and at last into line ofskirmishers, lying down for cover between rushes.'Forward!' was the order, and we were off, cheering as we ran. O, it wasa grand sight! our colours flying, our whole front moving, like a bluewave on a green, immeasurable sea. And it had a voice like that of manywaters. Out of the woods ahead of us came a lightning flash. A ring ofsmoke reeled upward. Then came a deafening crash of thunders--one uponanother, and the scream of shells overhead. Something stabbed into ourcolumn right beside me. Many went headlong, crying out as they fell.Suddenly the colours seemed to halt and sway like a tree-top in thewind. Then down they went!--squad and colours--and we spread to passthem. At the order we halted and laid down and fired volley after volleyat the grey coats in the edge of the thicket A bullet struck in thegrass ahead of me, throwing a bit of dirt into my eyes. Another brushedmy hat off and I heard a wailing death yell behind me. The colonel rodeup waving a sword.'Get up an' charge!' he shouted.On we went, cheering loudly, firing as we ran, Bullets went by mehissing in my ears, and I kept trying to dodge them. We dropped againflat on our faces.A squadron of black-horse cavalry came rushing out of the woods at us,the riders yelling as they waved their swords. Fortunately we had nottime to rise. A man near me tried to get up.'Stay down!' I shouted.In a moment I learned something new about horses. They went over us likea flash. I do not think a man was trampled. Our own cavalry kept thembusy as soon as they had passed.Of the many who had started there was only a ragged remnant near me. Wefired a dozen volleys lying there. The man at my elbow rolled upon me,writhing like a worm in the fire.'We shall all be killed!' a man shouted. 'Where is the colonel?''Dead,' said another.'Better retreat,' said a third.'Charge!' I shouted as loudly as ever I could, jumping to my feet andwaving my sabre as I rushed forward. 'Charge!'It was the one thing needed--they followed me. In a moment we had hurledourselves upon the grey line thrusting with sword and bayonet.They broke before us--some running, some fighting desperately.A man threw a long knife at me out of a sling. Instinctively I caughtthe weapon as if it had been a ball hot off the bat. In doing so Idropped my sabre and was cut across the fingers. He came at me fiercely,clubbing his gun--a raw-boned, swarthy giant, broad as a barn door. Icaught the barrel as it came down. He tried to wrench it away, but Iheld firmly. Then he began to push up to me. I let him come, and in amoment we were grappling hip and thigh. He was a powerful man, but thatwas my kind of warfare. It gave me comfort when I felt the grip of hishands. I let him tug a jiffy, and then caught him with the old hiplock,and he went under me so hard I could hear the crack of his bones. Oursupport came then. We made him prisoner, with some two hundred othermen. Reserves came also and took away the captured guns. My comradesgathered about me, cheering, but I had no suspicion of what they meant.I thought it a tribute to my wrestling. Men lay thick there back of theguns--some dead, some calling faintly for help. The red puddles aboutthem were covered with flies; ants were crawling over their faces. Ifelt a kind of sickness and turned away.What was left of my regiment formed in fours to join the advancingcolumn. Horses were galloping riderless, rein and stirrup flying, somehorribly wounded. One hobbled near me, a front leg gone at the knee.Shells were flying overhead; cannonballs were ricocheting over the levelvalley, throwing turf in the air, tossing the dead and wounded that laythick and helpless.Some were crumpled like a rag, as if the pain of death had witheredthem in their clothes; some swollen to the girth of horses; some bentbackward, with arms outreaching like one trying an odd trick, somelay as if listening eagerly, an ear close to the ground; some like asleeper, their heads upon their arms; one shrieked loudly, gesturingwith bloody hands, 'Lord God Almighty, have mercy on me!I had come suddenly to a new world, where the lives of men were cheaperthan blind puppies. I was a new sort of creature, and reckless of whatcame, careless of all I saw and heard.A staff officer stepped up to me as we joined the main body.'You ve been shot, young man,' he said, pointing to my left hand.Before he could turn I felt a rush of air and saw him fly into pieces,some of which hit me as I fell backward. I did not know what hadhappened; I know not now more than that I have written. I rememberfeeling something under me, like a stick of wood, bearing hard upon myribs. I tried to roll off it, but somehow, it was tied to me and kepthurting. I put my hand over my hip and felt it there behind me--my ownarm! The hand was like that of a dead man--cold and senseless. I pulledit from under me and it lay helpless; it could not lift itself. I knewnow that I, too, had become one of the bloody horrors of the battle.I struggled to my feet, weak and trembling, and sick with nausea. I musthave been lying there a long time. The firing was now at a distance: thesun had gone half down the sky. They were picking up the wounded in thenear field. A man stood looking at me. 'Good God!' he shouted, and thenran away like one afraid. There was a great mass of our men back of mesome twenty rods. I staggered toward them, my knees quivering.'I can never get there,' I heard myself whisper.I thought of my little flask of whiskey, and, pulling the cork with myteeth, drank the half of it. That steadied me and I made better headway.I could hear the soldiers talking as I neared them.'Look a there!' I heard many saying. 'See 'em come! My God! Look at 'emon the hill there!The words went quickly from mouth to mouth. In a moment I could hear themurmur of thousands. I turned to see what they were looking at. Acrossthe valley there was a long ridge, and back of it the main positionof the Southern army. A grey host was pouring over it--thousand uponthousand--in close order, debouching into the valley.A big force of our men lay between us and them. As I looked I could seea mighty stir in it. Every man of them seemed to be jumping up in theair. From afar came the sound of bugles calling 'retreat, the shoutingof men, the rumbling of wagons. It grew louder. An officer rode by mehatless, and halted, shading his eyes. Then he rode back hurriedly.'Hell has broke loose!' he shouted, as he passed me.The blue-coated host was rushing towards us like a flood: artillery,cavalry, infantry, wagon train. There was a mighty uproar in the menbehind me--a quick stir of feet. Terror spread over them like thetravelling of fire. It shook their tongues. The crowd began caving atthe edge and jamming at the centre. Then it spread like a swarm of beesshaken off a bush.'Run! Run for your lives!' was a cry that rose to heaven.'Halt, you cowards!' an officer shouted.It was now past three o clock.The raw army had been on its feet since midnight. For hours it hadbeen fighting hunger, a pain in the legs, a quivering sickness at thestomach, a stubborn foe. It had turned the flank of Beauregard; victorywas in sight. But lo! a new enemy was coming to the fray, innumerable,unwearied, eager for battle. The long slope bristled with his bayonets.Our army looked and cursed and began letting go. The men near mewere pausing on the brink of awful rout. In a moment they were off,pell-mell, like a flock of sheep. The earth shook under them. Officersrode around them, cursing, gesticulating, threatening, but nothing couldstop them. Half a dozen trees had stood in the centre of the roaringmass. Now a few men clung to them--a remnant of the monster that hadtorn away. But the greater host was now coming. The thunder of its manyfeet was near me; a cloud of dust hung over it. A squadron of cavalrycame rushing by and broke into the fleeing mass. Heavy horses, cut freefrom artillery, came galloping after them, straps flying over foamyflanks. Two riders clung to the back of each, lashing with whip andrein. The nick of wagons came after them, wheels rattling, horsesrunning, voices shrilling in a wild hoot of terror. It makes me trembleeven now, as I think of it, though it is muffled under the cover ofnearly forty years! I saw they would go over me. Reeling as if drunk, Iran to save myself. Zigzagging over the field I came upon a grey-beardedsoldier lying in the grass and fell headlong. I struggled madly, butcould not rise to my feet. I lay, my face upon the ground, weeping likea woman. Save I be lost in hell, I shall never know again the bitterpang of that moment. I thought of my country. I saw its splendid capitalin ruins; its people surrendered to God's enemies.The rout of wagons had gone by I could now hear the heavy tramp ofthousands passing me, the shrill voices of terror. I worked to a sittingposture somehow--the effort nearly smothered me. A mass of cavalry wasbearing down upon me. They were coming so thick I saw they would trampleme into jelly. In a flash I thought of what Uncle Eb had told me once.I took my hat and covered my face quickly, and then uncovered it as theycame near. They sheared away as I felt the foam of their nostrils. I hadsplit them as a rock may split the torrent. The last of them went overme--their tails whipping my face. I shall not soon forget the lookof their bellies or the smell of their wet flanks. They had no soonerpassed than I fell back and rolled half over like a log. I could feela warm flow of blood trickling down my left arm. A shell, shot at theretreating army, passed high above me, whining as it flew. Then my mindwent free of its trouble. The rain brought me to as it came pelting downupon the side of my face. I wondered what it might be, for I knewnot where I had come. I lifted my head and looked to see a newdawn--possibly the city of God itself. It was dark--so dark I felt as ifI had no eyes. Away in the distance I could hear the beating of a drum.It rang in a great silence--I have never known the like of it. I couldhear the fall and trickle of the rain, but it seemed only to deepen thesilence. I felt the wet grass under my face and hands. Then I knew itwas night and the battlefield where I had fallen. I was alive and mightsee another day--thank God! I felt something move under my feet I hearda whisper at my shoulder.'Thought you were dead long ago,' it said.'No, no,' I answered, 'I'm alive--I know I'm alive--this is thebattlefield.''Fraid I ain't goin' t' live,' he said. 'Got a terrible wound. Wish itwas morning.''Dark long?' I asked.'For hours,' he answered. 'Dunno how many.'He began to groan and utter short prayers.'O, my soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for themorning,' I heard him cry in a loud, despairing voice.Then there was a bit of silence, in which I could hear him whispering ofhis home and people.Presently he began to sing:  'Guide me, O thou great Jehovah!  Pilgrim through this barren land  I am weak but thou art mighty'His voice broke and trembled and sank into silence.I had business of my own to look after--perhaps I had no time tolose--and I went about it calmly. I had no strength to move and began tofeel the nearing of my time. The rain was falling faster. It chilled meto the marrow as I felt it trickling over my back. I called to the manwho lay beside me--again and again I called to him--but got no answer.Then I knew that he was dead and I alone. Long after that in the fardistance I heard a voice calling. It rang like a trumpet in the stillair. It grew plainer as I listened. My own name! William Brower? It wascertainly calling to me, and I answered with a feeble cry. In a momentI could hear the tramp of someone coming. He was sitting beside mepresently, whoever it might be. I could not see him for the dark. Histongue went clucking as if he pitied me.'Who are you?' I remember asking, but got no answer.At first I was glad, then I began to feel a mighty horror of him.In a moment he had picked me up and was making off. The jolt of his stepseemed to be breaking my arms at the shoulder. As I groaned he ran. Icould see nothing in the darkness, but he went ahead, never stopping,save for a moment, now and then, to rest I wondered where he was takingme and what it all meant. I called again, 'Who are you?' but he seemednot to hear me. 'My God!' I whispered to myself, 'this is no man--thisis Death severing the soul from the body. The voice was that of the goodGod.' Then I heard a man hailing near by.'Help, Help!' I shouted faintly.'Where are you?' came the answer, now further away. 'Can't see you.'My mysterious bearer was now running. My heels were dragging upon theground; my hands were brushing the grass tops. I groaned with pain.'Halt! Who comes there?' a picket called. Then I could hear voices.'Did you hear that noise?' said one. 'Somebody passed me. So dark can'tsee my hand before me.'Darker than hell!' said another voice.It must be a giant, I thought, who can pick me up and carry me as ifI were no bigger than a house cat. That was what I was thinking when Iswooned.From then till I came to myself in the little church at Centreville Iremember nothing. Groaning men lay all about me; others stood betweenthem with lanterns. A woman was bending over me. I felt the gentle touchof her hand upon my face and heard her speak to me so tenderly I cannotthink of it, even now, without thanking God for good women. I clung toher hand, clung with the energy of one drowning, while I suffered themerciful torture of the probe, the knife and the needle. And when it wasall over and the lantern lights grew pale in the dawn I fell asleep.But enough of blood and horror. War is no holiday, my merry people, whoknow not the mighty blessing of peace. Counting the cost, let us havewar, if necessary, but peace, peace if possible.Chapter 40But now I have better things to write of, things that have some relishof good in them. I was very weak and low from loss of blood for days,and, suddenly, the tide turned. I had won recognition for distinguishedgallantry they told me--that day they took me to Washington. I lay threeweeks there in the hospital. As soon as they heard of my misfortuneat home Uncle Eb wrote he was coming to see me. I stopped him by atelegram, assuring him that I was nearly well and would be home shortly.My term of enlistment had expired when they let me out a fine day inmid August. I was going home for a visit as sound as any man but, inthe horse talk of Faraway, I had a little 'blemish'on the left shoulder.Uncle Eb was to meet me at the jersey City depot. Before going I, withothers who had been complimented for bravery, went to see the president.There were some twenty of us summoned to meet him that day. It was warmand the great Lincoln sat in his shirt-sleeves at a desk in the middleof his big office. He wore a pair of brown carpet slippers, the rollingcollar and black stock now made so familiar in print. His hair wastumbled. He was writing hurriedly when we came in. He laid his pen awayand turned to us without speaking. There was a careworn look upon hissolemn face.'Mr President,' said the general, who had come with us, 'here are someof the brave men of our army, whom you wished to see.He came and shook hands with each and thanked us in the name of therepublic, for the example of courage and patriotism we and many othershad given to the army. He had a lean, tall, ungraceful figure and hespoke his mind without any frill or flourish. He said only a few wordsof good plain talk and was done with us.'Which is Brower?' he enquired presently.I came forward more scared than ever I had been before.'My son,' he said, taking my hand in his, 'why didn't you run?''Didn't dare,' I answered. 'I knew it was more dangerous to run awaythan to go forward.''Reminds me of a story,' said he smiling. 'Years ago there was a bullyin Sangamon County, Illinois, that had the reputation of running fasterand fighting harder than any man there. Everybody thought he was aterrible fighter. He'd always get a man on the run; then he'd ketchup and give him a licking. One day he tadded a lame man. The lame manlicked him in a minute.'"Why didn't ye run?" somebody asked the victor.'"Didn't dast," said he. "Run once when he tackled me an I've been lameever since.""How did ye manage to lick him?" said the other.'"Wall," said he, "I hed to, an' I done it easy."'That's the way it goes,' said the immortal president, 'ye do it easy ifye have to.He reminded me in and out of Horace Greeley, although they looked nomore alike than a hawk and a handsaw. But they had a like habit offorgetting themselves and of saying neither more nor less than theymeant. They both had the strength of an ox and as little vanity. MrGreeley used to say that no man could amount to anything who worriedmuch about the fit of his trousers; neither of them ever encounteredthat obstacle.Early next morning I took a train for home. I was in soldier clothes Ihad with me, no others--and all in my car came to talk with me about thenow famous battle of Bull Run.The big platform at Jersey City was crowded with many people as we gotoff the train. There were other returning soldiers--some with crutches,some with empty sleeves.A band at the further end of the platform was playing and those near mewere singing the familiar music,  'John Brown's body lies a mouldering in the grave.Somebody shouted my name. Then there rose a cry of three cheers forBrower. It's some of the boys of the Tribune, I thought--I could seea number of them in the crowd. One brought me a basket of flowers. Ithought they were trying to have fun with me.'Thank you!' said I, 'but what is the joke?''No joke,' he said. 'It's to honour a hero.''Oh, you wish me to give it to somebody.'I was warming with embarrassment'We wish you to keep it,' he answered.In accounts of the battle I had seen some notice of my leading a chargebut my fame had gone farther--much farther indeed--than I knew. I stooda moment laughing--an odd sort of laugh it was that had in it the saltof tears--and waving my hand to the many who were now calling my name.In the uproar of cheers and waving of handkerchiefs I could not findUncle Eb for a moment. When I saw him in the breaking crowd he wascheering lustily and waving his hat above his head. His enthusiasmincreased when I stood before him. As I was greeting him I heard alively rustle of skirts. Two dainty, gloved hands laid hold of mine;a sweet voice spoke my name. There, beside me, stood the tall, erectfigure of Hope. Our eyes met and, before there was any thinking ofpropriety, I had her in my arms and was kissing her and she was kissingme.It thrilled me to see the splendour of her beauty that day; her eyes wetwith feeling as they looked up at me; to feel again the trembling touchof her lips. In a moment I turned to Uncle Eb.'Boy,' he said, 'I thought you...' and then he stopped and beganbrushing his coat sleeve.'Come on now,' he added as he took my grip away from me. 'We're goin' t'hev a gran' good time. I'll take ye all to a splendid tavern somewheres.An' I ain't goin' to count the cost nuther.He was determined to carry my grip for me. Hope had a friend with herwho was going north in the morning on our boat. We crossed the ferry andtook a Broadway omnibus, while query followed query.'Makes me feel like a flapjack t'ride 'n them things,' said Uncle Eb aswe got out.He hired a parlour and two bedrooms for us all at the St Nicholas.'Purty middlin' steep!' he said to me as we left the office. 'It is,sartin! but I don't care--not a bit. When folks has to hev a good timethey've got t' hev it.We were soon seated in our little parlour. There was a great glow ofhealth and beauty in Hope's face. It was a bit fuller but had nobleroutlines and a colouring as delicate as ever. She wore a plain greygown admirably fitted to her plump figure. There was a new and splendid'dignity in her carriage, her big blue eyes, her nose with its littleupward slant. She was now the well groomed young woman of society in thefull glory of her youth.Uncle Eb who sat between us pinched her cheek playfully. A little spotof white showed a moment where his fingers had been. Then the pinkflooded over it.'Never see a girl git such a smack as you did,' he said laughing.'Well,' said she, smiling, 'I guess I gave as good as I got.''Served him right,' he said. 'You kissed back good 'n hard. Gran sport!'he added turning to me.'Best I ever had,' was my humble acknowledgement.'Seldom ever see a girl kissed so powerful,' he said as he took Hope'shand in his. 'Now if the Bible said when a body kissed ye on one cheekye mus' turn if other I wouldn't find no fault. But ther's a heap odiffer'nce 'tween a whack an' a smack.When we had come back from dinner Uncle Eb drew off his boots and satcomfortably in his stocking feet while Hope told of her travels and I ofmy soldiering. She had been at the Conservatory, nearly the whole periodof her absence, and hastened home when she learned of the battle and ofmy wound. She had landed two days before.Hope's friend and Uncle Eb went away to their rooms in good season. ThenI came and sat beside Hope on the sofa.'Let's have a good talk,' I said.There was an awkward bit of silence.'Well,' said she, her fan upon her lips, 'tell me more about the war.'Tired of war,' I answered; 'love is a better subject.She rose and walked up and down the room, a troubled look in her face. Ithought I had never seen a woman who could carry her head so proudly.'I don't think you are very familiar with it,' said she presently.'I ought to be,' I answered, 'having loved you all these years.'But you told me that--that you loved another girl,' she said, her elbowleaning on the mantel, her eyes looking down soberly.'When? Where?' I asked.'In Mrs Fuller's parlour.''Hope,' I said, 'you misunderstood me; I meant you.She came toward me, then, looking up into my eyes. I started to embraceher but she caught my hands and held them apart and came close to me.'Did you say that you meant me?' she asked in a whisper.'I did.''Why did you not tell me that night?'Because you would not listen to me and we were interrupted.'Well if I loved a girl,' she said, 'I'd make her listen.''I would have done that but Mrs Fuller saved you.''You might have written,' she suggested in a tone of injury.'I did.''And the letter never came--just as I feared.'She looked very sober and thoughtful then.'You know our understanding that day in the garden,' she added. 'If youdid not ask me again I was to know you--you did not love me any longer.That was long, long ago.'I never loved any girl but you,' I said. 'I love you now, Hope, andthat is enough--I love you so there is nothing else for me. You aredearer than my life. It was the thought of you that made me brave inbattle. I wish I could be as brave here. But I demand your surrender--Ishall give you no quarter now.'I wish I knew,' she said, 'whether--whether you really love me or not?'Don't you believe me, Hope?'Yes, I believe you,' she said, 'but--but you might not know your ownheart.'It longs for you,' I said, 'it keeps me thinking of you always. Onceit was so easy to be happy; since you have been away it has seemed as ifthere were no longer any light in the world or any pleasure. It has mademe a slave. I did not know that love was such a mighty thing.'Love is no Cupid--he is a giant,' she said, her voice trembling withemotion as mine had trembled. 'I tried to forget and he crushed me underhis feet as if to punish me.She was near to crying now, but she shut her lips firmly and kept backthe tears. God grant me I may never forget the look in her eyes thatmoment. She came closer to me. Our lips touched; my arms held hertightly.'I have waited long for this,' I said--'the happiest moment of my life!I thought I had lost you.'What a foolish man,' she whispered. 'I have loved you for years andyears and you--you could not see it, I believe now.'She hesitated a moment, her eyes so close to my cheek I could feel thebeat of their long lashes.'That God made you for me,' she added.'Love is God's helper,' I said. 'He made us for each other.'I thank Him for it--I do love you so,' she whispered.The rest is the old, old story. They that have not lived it are to bepitied.When we sat down at length she told me what I had long suspected, thatMrs Fuller wished her to marry young Livingstone.'But for Uncle Eb,' she added, 'I think I should have done so--for I hadgiven up all hope of you.''Good old Uncle Eb!' I said. 'Let's go and tell him.He was sound asleep when we entered his room but woke as I lit the gas.'What's the matter?' he whispered, lifting his head.'Congratulate us,' I said. 'We're engaged.'Hey ye conquered her?' he enquired smiling.'Love has conquered us both,' I said.'Wall, I swan! is thet so?' he answered. 'Guess I won't fool away anymore time here in bed. If you childen'll go in t'other room I'll slipinto my trousers an' then ye'll hear me talk some conversation.'Beats the world!' he continued, coming in presently, buttoning hissuspenders. 'I thought mos' likely ye'd hitch up t'gether sometime.'Tain't often ye can find a pair s'well matched. The same style angaited jest about alike. When ye goin' t' git married?'She hasn't named the day,' I said.'Sooner the better,' said Uncle Eb as he drew on his coat and sat down.'Used to be so t'when a young couple hed set up 'n held each other'shan's a few nights they was ready fer the minister. Wish't ye couldfix it fer 'bout Crissmus time, by jingo! They's other things goin' tohappen then. S'pose yer s'happy now ye can stan' a little bad news. I'vegot to tell ye--David's been losin' money. Hain't never wrote ye 'boutit--not a word--'cause I didn't know how 'twas comin' out.'How did he lose it?' I enquired.'Wall ye know that Ow Barker--runs a hardware store in Migleyville--hesold him a patent right. Figgered an' argued night an' day fer more 'nthree weeks. It was a new fangled wash biler. David he thought he see achance if put out agents an' make a great deal o'money. It did look jestas easy as slidin' downhill but when we come slide--wall, we found outwe was at the bottom o the hill 'stid o' the top an' it wan't reel goodslidin. He paid five thousan' dollars fer the right o'ten counties. Thenbym bye Barker he wanted him t'go security fer fifteen hunderd bilersthet he was hevin' made. I to!' David he hedn't better go in no deeperbut Barker, he promised big things an' seemed to be sech a nice man 'atfin'ly David he up 'n done it. Wall he's hed 'em t' pay fer an' the factis it costs s'much if sell 'em it eats up all the profits.'Looks like a swindle,' I said indignantly.'No,' said Uncle Eb, ''tain't no swindle. Barker thought he hed a gran'good thing. He got fooled an' the fool complaint is very ketchin'. Gotit myself years ago an' I've been doctorin' fer it ever sence.The story of David's undoing hurt us sorely. He had gone the way of mostmen who left the farm late in life with unsatisfied ambition.'They shall never want for anything, so long as I have my health,' Isaid.'I have four hundred dollars in the bank,' said Hope, 'and shall givethem every cent of it.'Tain' nuthin'if worry over,' said Uncle Eb. 'If I don' never losemore'n a little money I shan't feel terrible bad. We're all young yit.Got more'n a million dollars wuth o' good health right here 'n thisroom. So well, I'm 'shamed uv it! Man's more decent if he's a leetle bitsickly. An' thet there girl Bill's agreed t'marry ye! Why! 'Druther hevher 'n this hull city o' New York.'So had I,' was my answer.'Wall, you am'no luckier 'n she is--not a bit,' he added. 'A good man'sbetter 'n a gol'mine ev'ry time.'Who knows,' said Hope. 'He may be president someday.'Ther's one thing I hate,' Uncle El continued. 'That's the idee o hevin'the woodshed an' barn an' garret full o' them infernal wash bilers.Ye can't take no decent care uv a hoss there 'n the stable' they'reso piled up. One uv 'em tumbled down top o' me t'other day. 'Druther'twould a been a panther. Made me s'mad I took a club an' knocked thatbiler into a cocked hat. 'Tain't right! I'm sick o' the sight uv 'em.'They'll make a good bonfire someday,' said Hope.'Don't believe they'd burn,' he answered sorrowfully, 'they're tin.'Couldn't we bury 'em?' I suggested.'Be a purty costly funeral,' he answered thoughtfully. 'Ye'd hev to diga hole deeper n Tupper's dingle.'Couldn't you give them away?' I enquired.'Wall,' said he, helping himself to a chew of tobacco, 'we ve triedthet. Gin 'em t'everybody we know but there ain't folks enough' there'ssuch a slew o'them bilers. We could give one to ev'ry man, woman an'child in Faraway an' hex enough left t'fill an acre lot. Dan Perry druvin t'other day with a double buggy. We gin him one fer his own fam'ly.It was heavy t'carry an' he didn't seem t' like the looks uv it someway.Then I asked him if he wouldn't like one fer his girl. "She ain'tmarried," says he. "She will be some time," says I, "take it along," sohe put in another. "You've got a sister over on the turnpike hain'tye?" says I. "Yes," says he. "Wall," I says, "don' want a hex her feelslighted." "She won't know 'bout my hevin' 'em," says he, lookin' 's ifhe'd hed enough. "Yis she will," I says, "she'll hear uv it an' mebbemake a fuss." Then we piled in another. "Look here," I says after that,"there s yer brother Bill up there 'bove you. Take one along fer him.""No," says he, "I don' tell ev'ry body, but Bill an' I ain't on goodterms. We ain't spoke fer more'n a year."'Knew he was lyin',' Uncle Eb added with a laugh, 'I'd seen him talkin'with Bill a day er two before.'Whew!' he whistled as he looked at his big silver watch. 'I declareit's mos' one o'clock They's jes' one other piece o' business to comebefore this meetin'. Double or single, want ye to both promise me t'behum Crissmus.We promised.'Now childern,' said he. ''S time to go to bed. B'lieve ye'd stan' thereswappin' kisses 'till ye was kner sprung if I didn't tell ye t' quit.Hope came and put her arms about his neck, fondly, and kissed himgood-night.'Did Bill prance right up like a man?' he asked, his hand upon hershoulder.'Did very well,' said she, smiling, 'for a man with a wooden leg.Uncle Eb sank into a chair, laughing heartily, and pounding his knee. Itseemed he had told her that I was coming home with a wooden leg! 'Thatis the reason I held your arm,' she said. 'I was expecting to hear itsqueak every moment as we left the depot. But when I saw that you walkedso naturally I knew Uncle Eb had been trying to fool me.'Purty good sort uv a lover, ain't he?' said he after we were donelaughing.'He wouldn't take no for an answer,' she answered.'He was alwuss a gritty cuss,' said Uncle Eb, wiping his eyes with a bigred handkerchief as he rose to go. 'Ye'd oughter be mighty happy an' yewill, too--their am'no doubt uv it--not a bit. Trouble with most youngfolks is they wan' to fly tew high, these days. If they'd only fly clusenough t'the ground so the could alwuss touch one foot, they'd be allright. Glad ye ain't thet kind.We were off early on the boat--as fine a summer morning as ever dawned.What with the grandeur of the scenery and the sublimity of our happinessit was a delightful journey we had that day. I felt the peace and beautyof the fields, the majesty of the mirrored cliffs and mountains, but thefair face of her I loved was enough for me. Most of the day Uncle Eb satnear us and I remember a woman evangelist came and took a seat besidehim, awhile, talking volubly of the scene.'My friend,' said she presently, 'are you a Christian?'Fore I answer I'll hev to tell ye a story,' said Uncle Eb. 'I recollec'a man by the name o' Ranney over 'n Vermont--he was a pious man. Gotinto an argyment an' a feller slapped him in the face. Ranney turnedt'other side an' then t'other an' the feller kep' a slappin' hot 'nheavy. It was jes' like strappin' a razor fer half a minnit. Then Ranneysailed in--gin him the wust lickin' he ever hed.'"I declare," says another man, after 'twas all over, "I thought you wasa Christian.""Am up to a cert in p'int," says he. "Can't go tew fur not 'n theseparts--men are tew powerful. 'Twon't do 'less ye wan' to die sudden.When he begun poundin' uv me I see I wan't eggzac'ly prepared."''Fraid 's a good deal thet way with most uv us. We're Christians up toa cert'in p'int. Fer one thing, I think if a man'll stan' still an' seehimself knocked into the nex' world he's a leetle tew good fer this.'The good lady began to preach and argue. For an hour Uncle Eb satlistening unable to get in a word. When, at last, she left him he cameto us a look of relief in his face.'I b'lieve,' said he, 'if Balaam's ass hed been rode by a woman he never'd hev spoke.''Why not?' I enquired.'Never'd hev hed a chance,' Uncle Eb added.We were two weeks at home with mother and father and Uncle Eb. It wasa delightful season of rest in which Hope and I went over the slopingroads of Faraway and walked in the fields and saw the harvesting. Shehad appointed Christmas Day for our wedding and I was not to go again tothe war, for now my first duty was to my own people. If God prosperedme they were all to come to live with us in town and, though slow topromise, I could see it gave them comfort to know we were to be for themever a staff and refuge.And the evening before we came back to town Jed Feary was with us andUncle Eb played his flute and sang the songs that had been the delightof our childhood.The old poet read these lines written in memory of old times in Farawayand of Hope's girlhood.  'The red was in the clover an' the blue was in the sky:  There was music in the meadow, there was dancing in the rye;  An' I heard a voice a calling to the flocks o' Faraway  An' its echo in the wooded hills--Go'day! Go'day! Go'day!  O fair was she--my lady love--an' lithe as the willow tree,  An' aye my heart remembers well her parting words t' me.  An' I was sad as a beggar-man but she was blithe an' gay  An' I think o' her as I call the flocks Go'day! Go'day! Go'day!  Her cheeks they stole the dover's red, her lips the odoured air,  An' the glow o' the morning sunlight she took away in her hair;  Her voice had the meadow music, her form an' her laughing eye  Have taken the blue o' the heavens an' the grace o' the bending rye.  My love has robbed the summer day--the field, the sky, the dell,  She has taken their treasures with her, she has taken my heart as well;  An' if ever, in the further fields, her feet should go astray  May she hear the good God calling her Go'day! Go'day! Go'day!Chapter 41I got a warm welcome on Monkey Hill. John Trumbull came to dine withus at the chalet the evening of my arrival. McGlingan had becomeeditor-in-chief of a new daily newspaper. Since the war began Mr Forcehad found ample and remunerative occupation writing the 'Obituaries ofDistinguished Persons. He sat between Trumbull and McGlingan at tableand told again of the time he had introduced the late Daniel Webster tothe people of his native town.Reciting a passage of the immortal Senator he tipped his beer into thelap of McClingan. He ceased talking and sought pardon.'It is nothing, Force--nothing,' said the Scotchman, with great dignity,as he wiped his coat and trousers. 'You will pardon me if I say that Ihad rather be drenched in beer than soaked in recollections.'That's all right,' said Mr Opper, handing him a new napkin. 'Yes, inthe midst of such affliction I should call it excellent fun, McClinganadded. 'If you ever die, Force, I will preach the sermon without charge.'On what text?' the obituary editor enquired.'"There remaineth therefore, a rest for the people of God,"'quothMcClingan solemnly. 'Hebrews, fourth chapter and ninth verse.'If I continue to live with you I shall need it,' said Force.'And if I endure to the end,' said McClingan, 'I shall have excellentChristian discipline; I shall feel like opening my mouth and making aloud noise.McGlingan changed his garments and then came into my room and sat withus awhile after dinner.'One needs ear lappers and a rubber coat at that table,' said he.'And a chest protector,' I suggested, remembering the finger of Force.'I shall be leaving here soon, Brower,' said McGlingan as he lit acigar.'Where shall you go?' I asked.'To my own house.'Going to hire a housekeeper?'Going to marry one,' said he.'That's funny,' I said. We're all to be married--every man of us.'By Jove!' said McClingan, 'this is a time for congratulation. God saveus and grant for us all the best woman in the world.Chapter 42For every man he knew and loved Mr Greeley had a kindness that filledhim to the fingertips. When I returned he smote me on the breast--anunfailing mark of his favour--and doubled my salary.'If he ever smites you on the breast,' McClingan had once said to me,'turn the other side, for, man, your fortune is made.'And there was some truth in the warning.He was writing when I came in. A woman sat beside him talking. Animmense ham lay on the marble top of the steam radiator; a basket ofeggs sat on the floor near Mr Greeley's desk All sorts of merchandisewere sent to the Tribune those days, for notice, and sold at auction, tomembers of the staff, by Mr Dana.'Yes, yes, Madame, go on, I hear you,' said the great editor, as his penflew across the white page.She asked him then for a loan of money. He continued writing but,presently, his left hand dove into his trousers pocket coming up full ofbills.'Take what you want,' said he, holding it toward her, 'and please go forI am very busy.' Whereupon she helped herself liberally and went away.Seeing me, Mr Greeley came and shook my hand warmly and praised me fer agood soldier.'Going down town,' he said in a moment, drawing on his big whiteovercoat, 'walk along with me--won't you?We crossed the park, he leading me with long strides. As we walkedhe told how he had been suffering from brain fever. Passing St Paul'schurchyard he brushed the iron pickets with his hand as if to try thefeel of them. Many turned to stare at him curiously. He asked me, soon,if I would care to do a certain thing for the Tribune, stopping, to lookin at a shop window, as I answered him. I waited while he did his errandat a Broadway shop; then we came back to the office. The publisher wasin Mr Greeley's room.'Where's my ham, Dave?' said the editor as he looked at the slab ofmarble where the ham had lain.'Don't know for sure,' said the publisher, 'it's probably up at thehouse of the--editor by this time.'What did you go 'n give it to him for?' drawled Mr Greeley in a tone ofirreparable injury. 'I wanted that ham for myself.'I didn't give it to him,' said the publisher. 'He came and helpedhimself. Said he supposed it was sent in for notice.'The infernal thief!' Mr Greeley piped with a violent gesture. 'I'llswear! if I didn't keep my shirt buttoned tight they'd have that, too.The ham was a serious obstacle in the way of my business and it wentover until evening. But that and like incidents made me to know the manas I have never seen him pictured--a boy grown old and grey, pushing thepower of manhood with the ardours of youth.I resumed work on the Tribune that week. My first assignment was a massmeeting in a big temporary structure--then called a wigwam--over inBrooklyn. My political life began that day and all by an odd chance. Thewigwam was crowded to the doors. The audience bad been waiting half anhour for the speaker. The chairman had been doing his best to killtime but had run out of ammunition. He had sat down to wait, an awkwardsilence had begun. The crowd was stamping and whistling and clappingwith impatience. As I walked down the centre aisle, to the reporter'stable, they seemed to mistake me for the speaker. Instantly a greatuproar began. It grew louder every step I took. I began to wonder andthen to fear the truth. As I neared the stage the chairman came forwardbeckoning to me. I went to the flight of steps leading up to that higherlevel of distinguished citizens and halted, not knowing just what to do.He came and leaned over and whispered down at me. I remember he was redin the face and damp with perspiration.'What is your name?' he enquired.'Brower,' said I in a whisper.A look of relief came into his face and I am sure a look of anxiety cameinto mine. He had taken the centre of the stage before I could stop him.'Lathes and gentlemen,' said he, 'I am glad to inform you that GeneralBrower has at last arrived.I remembered then there was a General Brower in the army who was also apower in politics.In the storm of applause that followed this announcement, I beckoned himto the edge of the platform again. I was nearer a condition of mentalpanic than I have ever known since that day.'I am not General Brower,' I whispered.'What!' said he in amazement.'I am not General Brower,' I said.'Great heavens!' he whispered, covering his mouth with his band andlooking very thoughtful. 'You'll have to make a speech, anyway--there'sno escape.I could see no way out of it and, after a moment's hesitation, ascendedthe platform took off my overcoat and made a speech.Fortunately the issue was one with which I had been long familiar. Itold them how I had been trapped. The story put the audience in goodhumour and they helped me along with very generous applause. And sobegan my career in politics which has brought me more honour than Ideserved although I know it has not been wholly without value to mycountry. It enabled me to repay in part the kindness of my former chiefat a time when he was sadly in need of friends. I remember meeting himin Washington a day of that exciting campaign of '72. I was then inCongress.'I thank you for what you have done, Brower,' said he, 'but I tell youI am licked. I shall not carry a single state. I am going to beslaughtered.He had read his fate and better than he knew. In politics he was a greatprophet.Chapter 43The north country lay buried in the snow that Christmastime. Here andthere the steam plough had thrown its furrows, on either side of therailroad, high above the window line. The fences were muffled in longridges of snow, their stakes showing like pins in a cushion of whitevelvet. Some of the small trees on the edge of the big timber stoodoverdrifted to their boughs. I have never seen such a glory of themorning as when the sun came up, that day we were nearing home, and litthe splendour of the hills, there in the land I love. The frosty nap ofthe snow glowed far and near with pulsing glints of pale sapphire.We came into Hillsborough at noon the day before Christmas. Father andUncle Eb met us at the depot and mother stood waving her handkerchiefat the door as we drove up. And when we were done with our greetingsand were standing, damp eyed, to warm ourselves at the fire, Uncle Ebbrought his palms together with a loud whack and said:'Look here, Lizbeth Brower! I want to hev ye tell me if ye ever see alikelier pair o' colts.She laughed as she looked at us. In a moment she ran her hand down theside of Hope's gown. Then she lifted a fold of the cloth and felt of itthoughtfully.'How much was that a yard?' she asked a dreamy look in her eyes. 'Wy!w'y!' she continued as Hope told her the sum. 'Terrible steep! but itdoes fit splendid! Oughter wear well too! Wish ye'd put that on if ye got' church nex' Sunday.'O mother!' said Hope, laughing, 'I'll wear my blue silk.'Come boys 'n girls,' said Elizabeth suddenly, 'dinner's all ready inthe other room.'Beats the world!' said Uncle Eb, as we sat down at the table. 'Ye dolook gran' to me--ree-markable gran', both uv ye. Tek a premium at anyfair--ye would sartin.''Has he won yer affections?' said David laughing as he looked over atHope.'He has,' said she solemnly.'Affections are a sing'lar kind o' prop'ty,' said Uncle Eb. 'Hain'tgood fer nuthin till ye've gin em away. Then, like as not, they git veryvalyble.'Good deal that way with money too,' said Elizabeth Brower.'I recollec' when Hope was a leetle bit uv a girl' said Uncle Eb, 'sheused to say 'et when she got married she was goin' to hev her husban'rub my back fer me when it was lame.'I haven't forgotten it,' said Hope, 'and if you will all come you willmake us happier.'Good many mouths if feed!' Uncle Ebb remarked.'I could take in sewing and help some,' said Elizabeth Brower, as shesipped her tea.There was a little quiver in David's under lip as he looked over at her.'You ain't able t' do hard work any more, mother,' said he. 'She won'tnever hev to nuther,' said Uncle Eb. 'Don't never pay if go bookin' fertrouble--it stew easy if find. There ain' no sech thing 's trouble 'nthis world 'less ye look for it. Happiness won't hey nuthin if dewwith a man thet likes trouble. Minnit a man stops lookin' fer troublehappiness 'II look fer him. Things came puny nigh's ye like 'em here 'nthis world--hot er cold er only middlin'. Ye can either laugh er cry erfight er fish er go if meetin'. If ye don't like erry one you can finfault. I'm on the lookout fer happiness--suits me best, someway, andon't hurt my feelin's a bit.'Ev'ry day's a kind uv a circus day with you, Holden,' said DavidBrower. 'Alwuss hevin' a good time. Ye can hev more fun with yerseif 'nany man I ever see.''If I hev as much hereafter es I've hed here, I ain't a goin'if fin' nofault,' said Uncle Eb. ''S a reel, splendid world. God's fixed it up soev'ry body can hev a good time if they'll only hev it. Once I heard uv apoor man 'at hed a bushel o' corn give tew him. He looked up kind o' sadan' ast if they wouldn't please shell it. Then they tuk it away. God'sgin us happiness in the ear, but He ain't a goin' t' shell it fer us.You n 'Lizabeth oughter be very happy. Look a' them tew childern!There came a rap at the door then. David put on his cap and went outwith Uncle Eb.'It's somebody for more money,' Elizabeth whispered, her eyes filling.'I know 'tis, or he would have asked him in. We're goin't lose our home.Her lips quivered; she covered her eyes a moment.'David ain't well,' she continued. 'Worries night 'n day over moneymatters. Don't say much, but I can see it's alwuss on his mind. Woke upin the middle o' the night awhile ago. Found him sittin' by the stove."Mother," he said, "we can't never go back to farmin'. I've ploughedfurrows enough if go 'round the world. Couldn't never go through itag'in." "Well," said I, "if you think best we could start over see howwe git along. I'm willin' if try it." "No, we re too old," he says."Thet's out o' the question. I've been thinkin' what'll we do there withBill 'n Hope if we go t'live with 'em? Don't suppose they'll hev anyhosses if take care uv er any wood if chop. What we'll hev if do ismore'n I can make out. We can't do nuthin; we've never learnt how."'We've thought that all over,' I said. 'We may have a place in thecountry with a big garden.'Well,' said she, 'I'm very well if I am over sixty. I can cook an washan' mend an' iron just as well as I ever could.'Uncle Eb came to the door then.'Bill,' he said, 'I want you 'n Hope if come out here 'n look at thisyoung colt o' mine. He's playful 's a kitten.We put on our wraps and went to the stable. Uncle Eb was there alone.'If ye brought any Cnssmus presents,' he whispered, 'slip 'em into myhands. I'm goin' if run the cirkis t'morrow an' if we don't hev fun aplenty I'll miss my guess.'I'll lay them out in my room,' said Hope.'Be sure 'n put the names on 'em,' Uncle Eb whispered, as Hope wentaway.'What have ye done with the "bilers"?' I enquired.'Sold 'em,' said he, laughing. 'Barker never kep' his promise. Heardthey'd gone over t' the 'Burg an' was tryin' t' sell more territory.I says if Dave, "You let me manage 'em an' I'll put 'em out o businesshere 'n this part o' the country." So I writ out an advertisement ferthe paper. Read about this way: "Fer sale. Twelve hunderd patentedsuction Wash Bilers. Anyone at can't stan' prosperity an' is learnin' ifswear 'll find 'em a great help. If he don't he's a bigger fool 'n I am.Nuthin' in 'em but tin--that's wuth somethin'. Warranted t' hold water."'Wall ye know how that editor talks? 'Twant a day 'fore the head man o'the biler business come 'n bought 'em. An' the advertisement was neverput in. Guess he wan't hankerin' to hev his business spilt.Uncle Eb was not at the supper table that evening.'Where's Holden?' said Elizabeth Brower.'Dunno,' said David. 'Goin' after Santa Claus he tol' me.'Never see the beat o' that man!' was the remark of Elizabeth, as shepoured the tea. 'Jes' like a boy ev'ry Crissmus time. Been so excitedfer a week couldn't hardly contain himself.''Ketched him out 'n the barn t'other day laffin' like a fool,' saidDavid. 'Thought he was crazy.'We sat by the fire after the supper dishes were put away, talking ofall the Christmas Days we could remember. Hope and I thought our last inFaraway best of all and no wonder, for we had got then the first promiseof the great gift that now made us happy. Elizabeth, sitting in hereasy-chair, told of Christmas in the olden time when her father had goneto the war with the British.David sat near me, his face in the firelight--the broad brow wrinkledinto furrows and framed in locks of iron-grey. He was lookingthoughtfully at the fire. Uncle Eb came soon, stamping and shaking thesnow out of his great fur coat.'Col'night,' he said, warming his hands.Then he carried his coat and cap away, returning shortly, with a littlebox in his hand.'Jes' thought I'd buy this fer fun,' said he, holding it down to thefirelight. 'Dummed if I ever see the like uv it. Whoa!' he shouted, asthe cover flew open, releasing a jumping-jack. 'Quicker n a grasshopper!D'ye ever see sech a sassy little critter?Then he handed it to Elizabeth.'Wish ye Merry Christmas, Dave Brower!' said he.'Ain't as merry as I might be,' said David.'Know what's the matter with ye,' said Uncle Eb. 'Searchin' aftertrouble--thet's what ye're doin'. Findin' lots uv it right there 'nthe fire. Trouble 's goiti' t' git mighty scurce 'round here this veryselfsame night. Ain't goin' t' be nobody lookin' fer it--thet's why.Fer years ye've been takin' care o' somebody et I'll take care 'o you,long's ye live--sartin sure. Folks they said ye was fools when yetook 'em in. Man said I was a fool once. Alwuss hed a purty fair ideeo'myself sence then. When some folks call ye a fool 's a ruther goodsign ye ain't. Ye've waited a long time fer yer pay--ain't much longerto wait now.'There was a little quaver in his voice, We all looked at him in silence.Uncle Eb drew out his wallet with trembling hands, his fine old face litwith a deep emotion. David looked up at him as he wondered what joke wascoming, until he saw his excitement.'Here's twenty thousan' dollars,' said Uncle Eb, 'a reel, genuwine bankcheck! Jist as good as gold. Here 'tis! A Crissmus present fer you 'nElizabeth. An' may God bless ye both!'David looked up incredulously. Then he took the bit of paper. A big tearrolled down his cheek.'Why, Holden! What does this mean?' he asked.''At the Lord pays His debts,' said Uncle Eb. 'Read it.'Hope had lighted the lamp.David rose and put on his spectacles. One eyebrow had lifted above thelevel of the other. He held the check to the lamplight. Elizabeth stoodat his elbow.'Why, mother!' said he. 'Is this from our boy? From Nehemiah? Why,Nehemiah is dead!' he added, looking over his spectacles at Uncle Eb.'Nehemiah is not dead,' said the latter.'Nehemiah not dead!' he repeated, looking down at the draft. They turnedit in the light, reading over and over again the happy tidings pinned toone corner of it. Then they looked into each other's eyes.Elizabeth put her arms about David's neck and laid her head upon hisshoulder and not one of us dare trust himself to speak for a little.Uncle Eb broke the silence.'Got another present,' he said. 'S a good deal better 'n gold ersilver.' A tall, bearded man came in.'Mr Trumbull!' Hope exclaimed, rising.'David an' Elizabeth Brower,' said Uncle Eb, 'the dead hes come to life.I give ye back yer son--Nehemiah.'Then he swung his cap high above his head, shouting in a loud voice:'Merry Crissmus! Merry Crissmus!'The scene that followed I shall not try to picture. It was so full ofhappiness that every day of our lives since then has been blessed withit and with a peace that has lightened every sorrow; of it, I can trulysay that it passeth all understanding.'Look here, folks!' said Uncle Eb, after awhile, as he got his flute,'my feelin's hev been teched hard. If I don't hev some jollificationI'll bust. Bill Brower, limber up yer leather a leetle bit.'Chapter 44Nehemiah, whom I had known as John Trumbull, sat a long time between hisfather and mother, holding a hand of each, and talking in a low tone,while Hope and I were in the kitchen with Uncle Eb. Now that fatherand son were side by side we saw how like they were and wondered we hadnever guessed the truth.'Do you remember?' said Nehemiah, when we returned. 'Do you rememberwhen you were a little boy, coming one night to the old log house onBowman's Hill with Uncle Eb?'I remember it very well,' I answered.'That was the first time I ever saw you,' he said.'Why, you are not the night man?''I was the night man,' he answered.I stared at him with something of the old, familiar thrill that hadalways come at the mention of him years agone.'He's grown a leetle since then,' said Uncle Eb.'I thought so the night I carried him off the field at Bull Run,' saidNehemiah.'Was that you?' I asked eagerly.'It was,' he answered. 'I came over from Washington that afternoon. Yourcolonel told me you had been wounded.'Wondered who you were, but I could not get you to answer. I have tothank you for my life.Hope put her arms about his neck and kissed him.'Tell us,' said she, 'how you came to be the night man.'He folded his arms and looked down and began his story.'Years ago I had a great misfortune. I was a mere boy at the time. Byaccident I killed another boy in play. It was an old gun we were playingwith and nobody knew it was loaded. I had often quarrelled with theother boy--that is why they thought I had done it on purpose. Therewas a dance that night. I had got up in the evening, crawled out of thewindow and stolen away. We were in Rickard's stable. I remember how thepeople ran out with lanterns. They would have hung me--some of them--orgiven me the blue beech, if a boy friend had not hurried me away. It wasa terrible hour. I was stunned; I could say nothing. They drove me tothe 'Burg, the boy's father chasing us. I got over into Canada, walkedto Montreal and there went to sea. It was foolish, I know, but I wasonly a boy of fifteen. I took another name; I began a new life. NehemiahBrower was like one dead. In 'Frisco I saw Ben Gilman. He had been aschool mate in Faraway. He put his hand on my shoulder and called me theold name. It was hard to deny it--the hardest thing I ever did. I washomesick; I wanted to ask him about my mother and father and my sister,who was a baby when I left. I would have given my life to talk with him.But I shook my head.'"No," I said, "my name is not Brower. You are mistaken."'Then I walked away and Nemy Brower stayed in his grave.'Well, two years later we were cruising from Sidney to Van Dieman'sLand. One night there came a big storm. A shipmate was washed away inthe dark. We never saw him again. They found a letter in his box thatsaid his real name was Nehemiah Brower, son of David Brower, of Faraway,NY, USA. I put it there, of course, and the captain wrote a letter to myfather about the death of his son. My old self was near done for andthe man Trumbull had a new lease of life. You see in my madness I hadconvicted and executed myself.He paused a moment. His mother put her hand upon his shoulder with aword of gentle sympathy. Then he went on.'Well, six years after I had gone away, one evening in midsummer, wecame into the harbour of Quebec. I had been long in the southern seas.When I went ashore, on a day's leave, and wandered off in the fields andgot the smell of the north, I went out of my head--went crazy for a lookat the hills o' Faraway and my own people. Nothing could stop me then.I drew my pay, packed my things in a bag and off I went. Left the'Burg afoot the day after; got to Faraway in the evening. It wasbeautiful--the scent o' the new hay that stood in cocks and rows on thehill--the noise o' the crickets--the smell o' the grain--the old house,just as I remembered them; just as I had dreamed of them a thousandtimes. And--when I went by the gate Bony--my old dog--came out andbarked at--me and I spoke to him and he knew me and came and licked myhands, rubbing upon my leg. I sat down with him there by the stone walland--the kiss of that old dog--the first token of love I had known foryears' called back the dead and all that had been his. I put my armsabout his--neck and was near crying out with joy.'Then I stole up to the house and looked in at a window. There satfather, at a table, reading his paper; and a little girl was on herknees by mother saying her prayers. He stopped a moment, covering hiseyes with his handkerchief.'That was Hope,' I whispered.'That was Hope,' he went on. 'All the king's oxen could not have draggedme out of Faraway then. Late at night I went off into the woods. The olddog followed to stay with me until he died. If it had not been for himI should have been hopeless. I had with me enough to eat for a time.We found a cave in a big ledge over back of Bull Pond. Its mouth wascovered with briars. It had a big room and a stream of cold watertrickling through a crevice. I made it my home and a fine place itwas--cool in summer and warm in winter. I caught a cub panther that falland a baby coon. They grew up with me there and were the only friends Ihad after Bony, except Uncle Eb.'Uncle Eb!' I exclaimed.'You know how I met him,' he continued. 'Well, he won my confidence. Itold him my history. I came into the clearing almost every night. Methim often. He tried to persuade me to come back to my people, but Icould not do it. I was insane; I feared something--I did not know what.Sometimes I doubted even my own identity. Many a summer night I sattalking for hours, with Uncle Eb, at the foot of Lone Pine. O, he waslike a father to me! God knows what I should have done without him.Well, I stuck to my life, or rather to my death, O--there in thewoods--getting fish out of the brooks and game out of the forest, andmilk out of the cows in the pasture. Sometimes I went through the woodsto the store at Tifton for flour and pork. One night Uncle Eb told meif I would go out among men to try my hand at some sort of business hewould start me with a thousand dollars. Well, I did--it. I had alsoa hundred dollars of my own. I came through the woods afoot. Boughtfashionable clothing at Utica, and came to the big city--you know therest. Among men my fear has left me, so I wonder at it. I am a debtor tolove--the love of Uncle Eb and that of a noble woman I shall soon marry.It has made me whole and brought me back to my own people.'And everybody knew he was innocent the day after he left,' said David.'Three cheers for Uncle Eb!' I demanded.And we gave them.'I declare!' said he. 'In all my born days never see sech fun. It'stree-menjious! I tell ye. Them 'et takes care uv others'll be took careuv--'less they do it o'purpose.'And when the rest of us had gone to bed Uncle Eb sat awhile by the firewith David. Late at night he came upstairs with his candle. He came overto my bed on tiptoe to see if I were awake, holding the candle above myhead. I was worn out and did not open my eyes. He sat down snickering.'Tell ye one thing, Dave Brower,' he whispered to himself as he drewoff his boots, 'when some folks calls ye a fool 's a purty good sign yeain't.'Chapter 45Since that day I have seen much coming and going.We are now the old folks--Margaret and Nehemiah and Hope and I. Thoseothers, with their rugged strength, their simple ways, their undyingyouth, are of the past. The young folks--they are a new kind of people.It gives us comfort to think they will never have to sing in choirs or'pound the rock' for board money; but I know it is the worse luckfor them. They are a fine lot of young men and women--comely andwell-mannered--but they will not be the pathfinders of the future. Whatwith balls and dinners and clubs and theatres, they find too great asolace in the rear rank.Nearly twenty years after that memorable Christmas, coming from Buffaloto New York one summer morning, my thoughts went astray in the northcountry. The familiar faces, the old scenes came trooping by and thatvery day I saw the sun set in Hillsborough as I had often those lateyears.Mother was living in the old home, alone, with a daughter of GrandmaBisnette. It was her wish to live and die under that roof. She cooked mea fine supper, with her own hands, and a great anxiety to please me.'Come Willie!' said she, as if I were a small boy again, 'you fill thewoodbox an' I'll git supper ready. Lucindy, you clear out,' she said tothe hired girl, good-naturedly. 'You dunno how t'cook for him.'I filled the woodbox and brought a pail of water and while she wasfrying the ham and eggs read to her part of a speech I had made inCongress. Before thousands I had never felt more elation. At last Iwas sure of winning her applause. The little bent figure stood,thoughtfully, turning the ham and eggs. She put the spider aside, tostand near me, her hands upon her hips. There was a mighty pride in herface when I had finished.I rose and she went and looked out of the window.'Grand!' she murmured, wiping her eyes with the corner of herhandkerchief.'Glad you like it,' I said, with great satisfaction.'O, the speech!' she answered, her elbow resting on the window sash, herhand supporting her head. 'I liked it very well--but--but I was thinkingof the sunset. How beautiful it is.I was weary after my day of travel and went early to bed there in my oldroom. I left her finishing a pair of socks she had been knitting forme. Lying in bed, I could hear the creak of her chair and the low sung,familiar words:'On the other side of Jordan, In the sweet fields of Eden, Where thetree of life is blooming, There is rest for you.Late at night she came into my room with a candle. I heard her comesoftly to the bed where she stood a moment leaning over me. Then shedrew the quilt about my shoulder with a gentle hand.'Poor little orphan!' said she, in a whisper that trembled. She wasthinking of my childhood--of her own happier days.Then she went away and I heard, in the silence, a ripple of measurelesswaters.Next morning I took flowers and strewed them on the graves of David andUncle Eb; there, Hope and I go often to sit for half a summer day abovethose perished forms, and think of the old time and of those last wordsof my venerable friend now graven on his tombstone:     I AIN'T AFRAID.     'SHAMED O'NUTHIN' I EVER DONE.     ALWUSS KEP'MY TUGS TIGHT,     NEVER SWORE 'LESS 'TWAS NECESSARY,     NEVER KETCHED A FISH BIGGER 'N 'TWAS     ER LIED 'N A HOSS TRADE     ER SHED A TEAR I DIDN'T HEV TO.     NEVER CHEATED ANYBODY BUT EBEN HOLDEN.     GOIN' OFF SOMEWHERES, BILL     DUNNO THE WAY NUTHER     DUNNO 'F IT'S EAST ER WEST ER NORTH ER SOUTH,     ER ROAD ER TRAIL;     BUT I AIN'T AFRAID.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Eben Holden, by Irving Bacheller*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EBEN HOLDEN ******** This file should be named 2799.txt or 2799.zip ***** This andall associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/7/9/2799/Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer, Martin Robb, and David WidgerUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will berenamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no oneowns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (andyou!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permissionand without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth inthe General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying anddistributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect thePROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is aregistered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks,unless you receive specific permission. If you do not charge anythingfor copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. Youmay use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivativeworks, reports, performances and research. They may be modified andprinted and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with publicdomain eBooks. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license,especially commercial redistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOUDISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the FullProject Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agreeto and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all theterms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy allcopies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be usedon or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agreeto be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things thatyou can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works even withoutcomplying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.Cbelow. There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and helppreserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.See paragraph 1.E below.1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual works inthe collection are in the public domain in the United States. If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and youare located in the United States, we do not claim a right to preventyou from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creatingderivative works based on the work as long as all references to ProjectGutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope that you will support theProject Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronicworks by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance withthe terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm nameassociated with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of thisagreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attachedfull Project Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge withothers.1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributingor creating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almostno restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-useit under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with thiseBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges. If you are redistributing or providing access to a work withthe phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work,you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistributethis electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format otherthan "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the officialversion posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expenseto the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a meansof obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "PlainVanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the fullProject Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing accessto or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided that- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forthin this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from both theProject Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael Hart, theowner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation asset forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm collection.Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, and themedium on which they may be stored, may contain "Defects," such as, butnot limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcriptionerrors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, adefective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computercodes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees.YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED INPARAGRAPH F3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, ANDANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FORACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGESEVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defectin this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receivea refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a writtenexplanation to the person you received the work from. If you receivedthe work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with yourwritten explanation. The person or entity that provided you with thedefective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law. The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation,the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will remainfreely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure andpermanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations. Tolearn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation andhow your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and theFoundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the stateof Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal RevenueService. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification numberis 64-6221541. Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising. Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations. Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887,email business@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and official pageat http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide spreadpublic support and donations to carry out its mission of increasingthe number of public domain and licensed works that can be freelydistributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest arrayof equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations ($1 to$5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status withthe IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SENDDONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular statevisit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make anystatements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outsidethe United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other waysincluding checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate,please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S. unlessa copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooksin compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm, includinghow to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe toour email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of Titus Andronicus, by William ShakespeareThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: Titus AndronicusAuthor: William ShakespeareTranslator: L.A.J. BurgersdijkRelease Date: December 2, 2007 [EBook #23676]Language: DutchCharacter set encoding: ISO-8859-1*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TITUS ANDRONICUS ***Produced by Jeroen Hellingman and the Online DistributedProofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net/TITUS ANDRONICUS.PERSONEN:	Saturninus, zoon van den overleden Keizer van Rome, later zelf Keizer.	Bassianus, zijn broeder.	Titus Andronicus, een Romeinsch Edelman en Veldheer.	Marcus Andronicus, Volkstribuun en broeder van Titus.	Zonen van Titus.		Lucius,		Quintus,		Marcius,		Mucius,	De jonge Lucius, een knaap, zoon van Lucius.	Publius, zoon van Marcus Andronicus.	?milius, een Romeinsch Edelman.	Zonen van Tamora.		Alerbus,		Demetrius,		Chiron,	Aaron, een Moor.	Een Hopman, een Tribuun, een Bode, een Boer.	Romeinen en Gothen.	Tamora, koningin der Gothen.	Lavinia, dochter van Titus Andronicus.	Een Voedster, met een zwart Kind.	Bloedverwanten van Titus, Senatoren, Tribunen, Officieren, Soldaten	en Gevolg.Het tooneel is in Rome en in de omstreken.EERSTE BEDRIJF.EERSTE TOONEEL.Rome. Voor het Kapitool.Trompetgeschal. De Tribunen en Senatoren verschijnen boven, op hetKapitool; beneden komen op, van de eene zijde, Saturninus en zijnAanhangers, van de andere, Bassianus en zijn Aanhangers, beidenmet trommen en vaandels.SATURNINUS. Eed'le Patrici?rs, hoeders van mijn recht,Verdedigt met de waap'nen mijne zaak;En medeburgers, volgers, echt en trouw,Bepleit mijn erflijke aanspraak met uw zwaarden.'k Ben de eerstgeboren zoon van hem, die 't laatstDen Keizersdiadeem van Rome droeg;Laat dus mijns vaders eer in mij herleven,En krenkt mijn voorrang niet door dezen hoon.BASSIANUS. Romeinen, volgers, vrienden van mijn recht,Vond ooit uw Bassianus, C?sars zoon,Genade in de oogen van het vorst'lijk Rome,Zoo houdt den weg naar 't Kapitool bezet;En duldt niet, dat onwaardigheid den zetelDes keizers nader', die aan kloekheid, recht,Gematigdheid en adel is gewijd;Maar laat verdienste schitt'ren door uw oordeel,En vecht, Romeinen, voor uw vrije keus.(Marcus Andronicus verschijnt, boven, op het Kapitool, met de kroonin handen.)MARCUS. Gij prinsen, die door vrienden en partijenEerzuchtig kampt om troon en heerschappij,Weet, dat het volk van Rome, hier door onsAls stand vertegenwoordigd, voor 't bezettenVan Rome's keizerszetel, Andronicus,Pius genaamd, eenstemmig heeft verkoren,Ter wille van zijn vele en groote diensten;Een eed'ler man, een kloeker krijgsheld leeftIn de' omtrek van Oud-Rome's wallen niet.Van 't krijgen tegen de barbaarsche GothenWerd hij door den senaat terugontboden,Die, met zijn zoons des vijands schrik, een volkSterk, in den strijd gehard, heeft onderworpen.Tien jaren zijn het, sinds hij Rome's zaakGediend en onzer tegenstanders trotsGestraft heeft met het zwaard, en vijfmaal keerdeHij bloedend weer en droeg zijn dapp're zoonsOp baren van het veld;Nu eind'lijk keert, met eerebuit beladen,De wakkere Andronicus weer naar Rome,Titus, befaamd, met wapenroem gekroond.Wij vragen dus,--bij de eer des naams van hem,Dien gij recht waardig opgevolgd wilt hebben,En krachtens 't Kapitool en den Senaat,Door u, naar gij betuigt, vereerd, aanbeden,--Dat gij teruggaat met uw macht, uw volgersOntslaat, en, als verzoekers past, in vredeEn need'rig uw verdiensten spreken laat.SATURNINUS. Hoe fraai maant die tribuun mijn geest tot kalmte!BASSIANUS. 'k Voed, Marcus Andronicus, zulk vertrouwenOp uw rechtschapenheid en goede trouw,En zoo bemin en eer ik u en de uwen,En haar, voogdesse van mijn gansche ziel,Lavinia, 't schoonst en rijkst juweel van Rome,Dat ik mijn lieve vrienden hier ontsla,En aan de gunst van 't volk en van 't gelukMijn zaak ter juiste weging overlaat.(De Volgelingen van Bassianus af.)SATURNINUS. Mijn vrienden, die mijn recht zoo ijv'rig voorstondt,Ik dank u allen en ontsla u hier,En laat mij en mijn zaak dus aan de gunstEn liefde van mijn vaderland thans over.(De Volgelingen van Saturninus af.)Wees, Rome, zoo gerecht en goed voor mij,Als ik op u vertrouw en u bemin.--Ontsluit de poort en laat mij binnen.BASSIANUS. Mij armen mededinger, ook, tribunen.(Saturninus en Bassianus bestijgen het Kapitool.)(Een Hopman komt op, met eenige Anderen.)HOPMAN. Romeinen, plaats! De wakkere Andronicus,Patroon der deugd, en Rome's beste strijder,Voorspoedig in de slagen, die hij levert,Is in geluk en eer gekeerd van daar,Waar hij de fierste vijanden van RomeTot wijken dwong en onder 't juk hen bracht.(Tromgeroffel en trompetgeschal. Twee van Titus' Zoons komen op,daarna twee Mannen, die een zwart overdekte lijkbaar dragen; vervolgenstwee andere Zoons; hen volgt Titus Andronicus; achter dezen komenTamora, alsmede Alerbus, Chiron, Demetrius, Aaron en andere Gothen,als gevangenen; gevolgd van Krijgslieden en Volk. De Dragers zettende lijkbaar neder, en Titus spreekt.)TITUS. Heil, Rome, zeeg'rijk in uw treurgewaad!Zooals de bark, na wel ontladen vracht,Met kostb're lading we?rkeert tot de baai,Waar ze in den aanvang 't anker heeft gelicht,Komt Andronicus, met laurier gekroond,Het vaderland weer groeten met zijn tranen,Met vreugdetranen om zijn wederkomst.Gij, groote schutsheer van dit kapitool,Blik gunstig op deez' plechtige uitvaart neer!Aan vijf en twintig dapp're zoons, Romeinen,Van half zooveel als Priamus bezat,Ziet hier, al wat mij dood of levend bleef.Dat Rome hen, die leven, loon' met liefde,En hen, die 'k naar hun laatste woning breng,Met eeuw'ge ruste bij hun voorgeslacht.De Goth vergunt mij 't zwaard hier op te steken.Gij wreev'le Titus, die uw stam vergeet,Wat laat ge uw zoons nog onbegraven warenAan 't schrikk'lijk strand, aan de' oever van den Styx?Maakt plaats, dat ik hen bij hun broeders legg'.(Het grafgewelf wordt geopend.)Groet daar elkander stil, als dooden doen,En slaapt in vre?, gij voor uw land gevall'nen!O heilige bewaarplaats mijner vreugd,Gij stil verblijf van adeldom en deugd,Met hoeveel zoons van mij zijt gij gela?n,Om nimmer ??n er van weer af te staan!LUCIUS. Geef ons der Gothen hoogsten krijgsgevang'ne,Opdat wij stuk hem houwen en zijn vleeschAd manes fratrum op een houtmijt off'ren,Hier voor den aardschen kerker hunner beend'ren,Opdat hun schimmen zijn verzoend en onsOp aard door geen verschijningen verschrikken.TITUS. Ik geef hem u, den edelsten, die leeft,Den oudsten zoon der droeve koningin hier.TAMORA. Laat af, Romeinsche broeders!--Eed'le Titus,Grootmoedig overwinnaar, zie mijn tranen,De tranen eener moeder voor haar zoon;En waren uwe zonen u ooit dierbaar,Zoo dierbaar is, bedenk dit, mij mijn zoon.Is 't niet genoeg, dat men naar Rome ons voerdeTot siering van uw we?rkomst en triumf,U en 't Romeinsche dwangjuk onderworpen;Wordt in uw straten nu mijn kroost geslacht,Omdat het voor zijn land zich dapper kweet?O, was de kloeke strijd voor staat en koningVoor de uwen plicht, hij is 't voor dezen ook.Rein, Andronicus, blijve uw graf van bloed;Wilt gij in aard den goden nader komen,Zoo kom hun nader in barmhartigheid;Want deernis is des adels echtste merk;Hoogeed'le Titus, spaar mijn eerstgeboor'ne!TITUS. Word kalm, vorstin, en schenk mij uw vergiff'nis.Zij zijn van hen de broeders, die gij, Gothen,In leven zaagt en dood; zij eischen vroomZoenoffers voor hun pas verslagen broeders:Daarom wordt deze uw zoon bestemd ter dood,Om der gevall'nen schimmen te verzoenen.LUCIUS. Weg met hem! steekt terstond een vuur aan; laat onsMet onze zwaarden op de houtmijt hemStuk houwen, en tot asch zij hij verteerd!(Lucius, Quintus, Marcius en Mucius met Alerbus af.)TAMORA. O wreede, onheil'ge vroomheid!CHIRON. Was ooit ons Scythi? half slechts zoo barbaarsch?DEMETRIUS. Noem Scythi? bij 't eerzuchtig Rome niet.Alerbus gaat ter rust; wij leven voortOm onder Titus' norschen blik te sidd'ren.Blijf kalm, vorstin, en voed de hoop, dat laterDezelfde goden, die aan HecubaDen Thracischen tyran eens overgaven,Dat in zijn tent haar scherpe wraak hem trof,Ook Tamora, de koningin der Gothen,--Toen Gothen Gothen waren, zij vorstin,--Wraak gunnen voor des vijands dorst naar bloed.(Lucius, Quintus, Marcius en Mucius komen weder op, met bebloedezwaarden.)LUCIUS. Zie, heer en vader, Rome's plechtighedenNaar eisch volvoerd. Alerbus is geslacht;Zijn ingewanden voeden 't offervuur;De rook doortrekt, als wierook, reeds de lucht.'t Begraven onzer broeders bleef slechts over,Die luide in Rome een strijdroep welkom heet'!TITUS. Zoo zij het, en dat Andronicus danZijn laatst vaarwel aan hunne zielen richte!(Trompetgeschal; de baar wordt in het grafgewelf geplaatst.)Rust hier in eer en vrede, mijne zonen;Gij Rome's kloekste kampers, rust hier zacht,Voor 's werelds wisseling en rampen veilig;Hier loert geen vuig verraad, hier zwelt geen nijd;Hier groeit geen boos vergif; hier zijn geen stormen,Geen luid geraas, slechts stilte en eeuw'ge slaap,Rust hier in eer en vrede, dierb're zoons!(Lavinia komt op.)LAVINIA. In eer en vrede leve Titus lang;Mijn eed'le heer en vader, leef in roem!Zie, op dit graf kom ik mijn tol van tranenTer plechtige uitvaart mijner broeders brengen;En pleng op de aarde, knielend aan uw voet,Mijn vreugdetranen om uw wederkomst.O zegen mij met uw zeeghafte hand,Gij, toegejuicht door Rome's beste burgers!TITUS. Dank, Rome, gij hebt liefdrijk mij den troostMijns ouderdoms behoed, mijn hart verblijd!--Lavinia, leef; en overleve uw deugdUw vader, al zijn roem, in eeuw'ge jeugd!(Marcus Andronicus, Saturninus, Bassianus en Anderen komen benedenop.)MARCUS. Lang leve Titus, mijn geliefde broeder,Wiens zegepraal nu Rome's oogen streelt!TITUS. Heb dank, tribuun; dank, eed'le broeder Marcus!MARCUS. En welkom, neven, na zeeghaften strijd,Zoo gij, die leeft, als gij, die slaapt in roem.Gij, eed'le jong'ren, die voor 't vaderlandHet zwaard toogt,--zij u aller heil gelijk!Toch is deze uitvaart zekerder triumf,Daar zij 't geluk van Solon heeft erlangdEn over alle wiss'ling triumfeertIn 't bed der eere.--Titus Andronicus,'t Romeinsche volk, welks echte en rechte vriendGij steeds geweest zijt, zendt u hier door mij,Die als tribuun uit aller naam u toespreek,Dit opperkleed van vlekk'loos witte kleur,En kiest u, dat gij dingt naar 't keizerschap,Met dezen, zoons van de overleden keizer.Wees alzoo candidatus, sla dit om,En schenk aan 't hoofdloos Rome weer een hoofd.TITUS. Een beter hoofd past Rome's roemrijk lijfDan dit, dat trilt van ouderdom en zwakte.Zou ik dien mantel omslaan en u kwellen?Vandaag gekozen, uitgeroepen worden,Om morgen staf en leven neer te leggenEn u op nieuw met moeite te beladen?--'k Was, Rome, veertig jaren lang uw krijger,'k Heb met geluk 's lands krachten aangevoerd,En een en twintig dapp're zoons begraven,In 't veld geridderd, in den strijd gesneefdVoor 't recht en 't welzijn van hun edel land.Reik aan mijn ouderdom een eerestaf,Geen scepter om de wereld te regeeren;Die 't laatst hem voerde, mannen, hield hem hoog.MARCUS. Titus, het rijk is u, zoodra gij 't vraagt.SATURNINUS. Eerzuchtige tribuun, kunt gij dit zeggen?TITUS. Kalm, Saturninus!SATURNINUS. Doet mij recht, Romeinen!--Patrici?rs, 't zwaard ontbloot en niet geborgen,Eer Saturninus Rome's keizer is.--O, voert gij, Andronicus, eer ter helle,Dan dat ge mij de harten steelt van 't volk!LUCIUS. Gij, trotsche Saturninus, stremt het heil,Dat Titus' edelaardigheid u toedenkt.TITUS. Wees kalm, mijn prins; de harten van het volkGeef ik u weer en speen die van hun lust.BASSIANUS. Ik, Andronicus, vlei u niet, maar eer u,En zal dit doen, zoolang ik leven heb.Versterkt gij mijnen aanhang met uw vrienden,Ik zal recht dankbaar zijn; en dank is mannenVan eed'le denkwijs steeds een eervol loon.TITUS. Gij volk van Rome en eed'le volkstribunen,Ik vraag uw stemmen voor de keizerskeus;Wilt gij die vriendlijk Andronicus schenken?TRIBUNEN. Om de' eed'len Andronicus te verheugenEn zijn behouden wederkomst te vieren,Neemt Rome's volk hem aan, dien hij verkiest.TITUS. Heb dank, tribunen; dit is mijn verzoek,Dat gij uws keizers oudsten zoon benoemt,Prins Saturninus; want ik hoop, zijn deugdenVerlichten Rome, als Titans stralen de aard,En doen in dezen staat het recht gedijen.Dus, wilt ge kiezen zooals ik u raad,Kroont hem, en roept nu: "Lang leve onze keizer!"MARCUS. Met aller standen bijvalsroep en stemBenoemen wij, Patrici?rs en Plebejers,Prins Saturninus hier tot Rome's keizer;Dus: "Lang leve onze keizer Saturninus!"(Langdurig trompetgeschal.)SATURNINUS. Voor al uw gunsten, Titus Andronicus,Ons heden bij de keizerskeus betoond,Wijd ik naar uw verdienste u dank, en wilMet daden uwe vriend'lijkheid beloonen;En, Titus, om, als eerste gunst, uw naamEn hoogvereerd geslacht nu te verhoogen,Worde uw Lavinia mijne keizerin,Beheerscheres van Rome en van mijn hart,En huwe ik haar in 't heilig Pantheon.Behaagt u, Andronicus, deze voorslag?TITUS. Ja, waardig vorst; en met dit echtverbondAcht ik mij hoog vereerd door uw genade,En wijd hier--Rome ziet het--Saturninus,Den koning en gebieder onzes staats,Der wijde wereld keizer, toe, wat mijn is,Mijn zwaard, mijn zegewagen, mijn gevang'nen;Geschenken, Rome's hoogen heer volwaardig;Aanvaard ze, als schatting, die ik schuldig ben,Mijn eereteek'nen, aan uw voet gevlijd!SATURNINUS. Dank, eed'le Titus, vader van mijn leven!Hoe trotsch ik ben op u en op uw gaven,Zal Rome tuigen; en vergeet ik ooitDen minsten dezer nooit volprezen diensten,Vergeet dan, Rome, uw eed van trouw aan mij!TITUS (tot Tamora). Gevang'ne zijt gij thans, vorstin, eens keizers,Eens mans, die om uw rang en waardigheidU en al de uwen edel zal behand'len.SATURNINUS. Een schoone vrouw, en van de kleur, die mijHaar kiezen deed, stond weer de keus mij vrij!--Verdrijf, vorstin, die wolk van uw gelaat;Wat wiss'ling u het lot des oorlogs bracht,Uw komst in Rome brengt u hoon noch spot;Neen, als vorstin zult ge u bejegend zien.Vertrouw mijn woord, en geen mismoedigheidVerschrikke uw hoop; die thans u troost, kan grooterU maken, dan gij bij de Gothen waart.--Lavinia, u mishaagt niet, wat ik zeg?LAVINIA. Neen, zeker niet; uw edel, groot gemoedIJkt, wat gij vorstlijk gunstig uit, als goed.SATURNINUS. Lavinia, dank!--Romeinen, laat ons gaan.Vrij zijn de krijgsgevang'nen, zonder losgeld.Verkondigt plechtig onze waardigheid.BASSIANUS (Lavinia aangrijpend). Titus, vergun mij,--deze maagdis mijn.TITUS. Wat, is dit inderdaad u ernst, mijn prins?BASSIANUS. Ja, eed'le Titus; vast ben ik besloten,Mijn aanspraak en mijn recht met kracht te staven.MARCUS. Het suum cuique geldt in Rome als recht;De prins neemt niets, dan wat naar recht het zijne is.LUCIUS. En wil en zal dit, zoolang Lucius leeft.TITUS. Verraders, weg! Waar is des keizers wacht?Verraad, mijn vorst! Lavinia wordt geroofd!SATURNINUS. Geroofd! door wien?BASSIANUS. Door hem, die stout en luidHaar opeischt, neemt, als zijn verloofde bruid.(Marcus en Bassianus met Lavinia af.)MUCIUS. Mijn broeders, helpt om haar van hier te voeren,En ik bewaak de deur hier met mijn zwaard.(Lucius, Quintus en Marcius af.)TITUS. Volg mij, mijn vorst, ik breng welras haar weer.MUCIUS. Neen, 'k laat niet door.TITUS.       Wat, drieste knaap! verspert gijIn Rome mij den weg?MUCIUS.              Help, Lucius, help!(Titus doodt Mucius.)(Lucius komt weder op.)LUCIUS. Heer, onrechtvaardig zijt ge en meer dan dat;In blinden, boozen strijd versloegt ge uw zoon.TITUS. Noch hem, noch u erken ik als mijn zoon;Geen zoon van mij hadde ooit mij zoo onteerd.Schurk, geef den keizer fluks Lavinia weer.LUCIUS. Dood, zoo gij wilt; niet om zijn vrouw te zijn;Zij is verloofd, echt, wettig, met een ander.(Lucius af.)SATURNINUS. De keizer, Titus, neen! behoeft haar niet,Noch haar, noch u, noch iemand van uw stam;Die eens mij hoont, hem zal ik soms vertrouwen,U nimmer, noch uw valsche trotsche zoons,Verbonden allen tot mijn schande en oneer.Kon niemand hier in Rome een speelbal zijnDan Saturninus? Waarlijk, Andronicus,Goed strookt dit doen met uw gepoch, dat ikHet keizerschap aan u heb afgebedeld.TITUS. Ontzettend! welk een grof verwijt is dit?SATURNINUS. Maar ga vrij voort; geef 't wankelmoedig dingAan hem, die daar zijn zwaard voor haar gezwaaid heeft.Een dapp're schoonzoon valt u zoo ten deel,Juist goed, om, met uw drieste zoons verbonden,Beroerders van 't Romeinsch gebied te zijn.TITUS. Elk woord vlijmt als een dolk mijn bloedend hart.SATURNINUS. Dies, schoone Tamora, vorstin der Gothen,Die, als de kuische Phoebe hare nymfen,Al Rome's schoonste vrouwen overstraalt,--Zie, als mijn rasse keus u kan behagen,Verkies ik, Tamora, u tot mijn bruid,En maak terstond u keizerin van Rome.Spreek, juicht gij, koningin der Gothen, toe?Bij alle goden zweer ik hier van Rome,--Ziet, priesters zijn nabij, 't gewijde water,De toortsen, die hel vlammen; alles staatBereid ter viering van den hymen?us,--'k Zweer, dat ik Rome's straten niet weer groet,Niet opklim naar mijn keizerlijk paleis,Eer ik mijn bruid, gehuwd, van hier geleid.TAMORA. En hier voor 's hemels aanschijn, zweer ik Rome:Kiest Saturninus de vorstin der Gothen,Een dienstmaagd zal zij voor zijn wenschen zijn,Een teed're voedster, moeder zijner jeugd.SATURNINUS. Bestijg het Pantheon, vorstin!--Romeinen,Verzelt uw keizer en zijn lieve bruid,Een gave aan Saturninus van den hemel,Wiens wijs bestuur het noodlot heeft verkeerd.D??r zij het huw'lijk plechtig ingezegend.(Saturninus met zijn Gevolg, Tamora en haar Zoons, Aaron en deGothen af.)TITUS. Mij noodt men niet om deze bruid te volgen.Titus, wanneer placht gij alleen te gaan,Aldus onteerd, met krenkingen getergd?(Marcus, Lucius, Quintus en Marcius komen weder op.)MARCUS. O Titus, zie! zie, wat gij hebt gedaan!Een braven zoon gedood in boozen waan!TITUS. Neen, dwaas tribuun; neen, hij was niet van mij,Noch gij, noch dezen, tot een daad verbonden,Waar ons geheel geslacht door is onteerd;Onwaardig broeder, en onwaardig kroost!LUCIUS. Doch laat ons hem begraven zooals pastZij bij zijn broeders Mucius nu begraven.TITUS. Verraders, weg! hij komt niet in dit graf.Vijf eeuwen heeft dit monument gestaan,Dat ik met groote kosten heb herbouwd;Hier rusten eervol krijgers, Rome's dienaars,Maar niemand, die in booze twisten viel.Begraaft hem waar gij wilt, hier komt hij niet.MARCUS. Dit, broeder, strijdt met wat de vroomheid eischt,Want Mucius' daden pleiten luid voor hem.Hij moet begraven worden bij zijn broeders.QUINTUS, MARCIUS. En zal het ook, of wij, wij volgen hem.TITUS. En zal het! welke booswicht sprak dit woord?QUINTUS. Hij, die het overal, slechts hier niet, staaft.TITUS. Wat! zoudt gij hem begraven en mij trotsen?MARCUS. Neen, eed'le Titus, slechts u bidden, datGij Mucius wilt vergeven, hem begraven.TITUS. Marcus, gij hebt mij op den helm geslagenEn met die knapen in mijn eer gewond;En elk van u acht ik mijn vijand thans.Zoo kwelt mij dus niet langer, maar gaat heen.MARCUS. Hij is zichzelf thans niet, komt, laat ons gaan.QUINTUS. Ik niet, eer Mucius' lijk begraven is.(Marcus en Titus' zonen knielen neder.)MARCUS. Broeder, want in dien naam pleit de natuur,--QUINTUS. Vader, want in dien naam spreekt de natuur,--TITUS. Spreek gij niet meer; dit kan al de and'ren helpen.MARCUS. Titus, gij meer dan mijner ziele helft,--LUCIUS. Mijn vader, gij, ons aller ziel en wezen,--MARCUS. O, gun uw broeder Marcus, dat hij hierIn 't nest der deugd zijn eed'len neef begraav',Die eervol voor Lavinia is gevallen.Romein zijt gij, zoo wees dan geen barbaar;De Grieken pleegden raad en schonken Ajax,Schoon hij zichzelf versloeg, een graf, waarvoorLa?rtes' wijze zoon met aandrang pleitte.Zoo zij den jongen Mucius, eens uw vreugd,Hier de ingang niet geweerd.TITUS.                   Rijs, Marcus, op!Dit is de onzaal'gste dag, dien ik aanschouwde;In Rome werd ik door mijn zoons onteerd!--Het zij, begraaf hem thans, en mij weldra!(Mucius wordt in het graf gelegd.)LUCIUS. Ruste uw gebeente, Mucius, bij uw vrienden,Tot wij uw graf met eereteek'nen sieren.ALLEN. Dat niemand om den eed'len Mucius ween';Hij leeft in roem, die stierf ter will' der deugd.MARCUS. Mijn broeder,--om dien rouw ter zij te stellen,--Hoe komt der Gothen sluwe koninginEensklaps in Rome zoo in eer verhoogd?TITUS. Ik weet niet, Marcus, maar ik weet, zij is 't,Door list of hoe, dit moog' de hemel weten.Moet zij den man niet dankbaar zijn, die haarZoo verre bracht naar hier tot zulk een heil?Ja, en zij zal wis vorst'lijk hem beloonen.(Trompetgeschal. Van de eene zijde komen weder op: Saturninus, metGevolg, Tamora, Demetrius, Chiron en Aaron; van de andere zijde:Bassianus, Lavinia en Anderen.)SATURNINUS. Zoo, Bassianus, hebt ge uw prijs erlangd;God geve u vreugd, man, met uw eed'le bruid.BASSIANUS. En u met de uwe, vorst! Ik zeg niet meer,En wensch niets minder; en zoo neem ik afscheid.SATURNINUS. Heeft Rome wetten, wij gezag, verrader,U en uw aanhang rouwt dan deze roof.BASSIANUS. Roof noemt gij 't, vorst, als ik het mijne neem,Mijn echte en rechte bruid en thans mijn gade?Doch Rome's wetten mogen dit beslissen.Hoe 't zij, 'k heb wat het mijne is, in bezit.SATURNINUS. Genoeg, gij zijt zeer kort met ons, maar wijZijn, als wij leven, even scherp met u.BASSIANUS. Vorst, wat ik deed, zal ik zoo goed ik kan,Verdedigen, en 'k doe dit met mijn leven.Slechts dit wil ik uw hoogheid nog doen kennen:Bij al mijn heil'ge plichten jegens Rome,De hooge en waardige eed'le, Titus hier,Is grievend in zijn eer en naam gekrenkt,Hij, die, om mij Lavinia af te dwingen,Met eigen hand zijn jongsten zoon versloeg,Voor u volijv'rig, en in toorn ontvlamd,Dat hij we?rstreefd werd in zijn gave aan u.Ontvang hem dus in gunste, Saturninus,Daar hij in al zijn daden zich een vriendEn vader jegens u en Rome toonde.TITUS. Prins Bassianus, laat mijn daden rusten;Gij zijt het en die daar, die mij onteerd hebt.Mij richte Rome en de gerechte hemel,Wat liefde en eer ik Saturninus schonk.TAMORA. Mijn eed'le gade, indien ooit TamoraGenade vond in deze uw vorstlijke oogen,Zoo hoor mijn onpartijdig woord voor allen:Vergeef wat is gebeurd, op mijn verzoek.SATURNINUS. Mijn gade, wat! in 't openbaar onteerd!En laf zou ik dit dulden, zonder wraak?TAMORA. Neen, neen, mijn vorst; verhoeden Rome's goden,Dat oneer u ten deele viel door mij!Doch met mijn eer durf ik er borg voor zijn,Dat de eed'le Titus schuldloos is in alles;Zijn onverholen woede toont zijn leed.Zie op mijn bede hem genadig aan;Verlies door ijd'len waan geen vriend als hij,En grief zijn vriendlijk hart niet door uw fronsblik.--(Ter zijde tot Saturninus.) Neem raad aan, mijn gemaal, geefeindlijk toe;Ontveins nu al uw grieven en verdriet,--Te nauwernood zijt ge op uw troon gezeteld,--Opdat het volk en de patrici?rs nietNa rijp beraad partij voor Titus kiezenEn u ontzeet'len om ondankbaarheid,In Rome steeds een zwaar vergrijp geacht.Verhoor mijn bede, en laat mij dan begaan.Ik vind een dag om allen te verdelgen;Uitroeien wil ik hun geslacht en aanhang,Den wreeden vader en zijn valsche zoons,Tot wie ik smeekte om 't leven van mijn kind.Zij voelen 't, wat het zegt, een koninginIn 't stof te laten knielen, vruchtloos smeeken.(Luid.) Kom, kom, mijn keizer!--Andronicus, kom!--Hef de' eed'len grijsaard op, verheug het hart,Dat in den storm van uwe gramschap sterft.SATURNINUS. Rijs, Titus, op, mijn keizerin verwon.TITUS. Ik dank uw majesteit, en haar, mijn vorst,Dat woord, die blik stort mij nieuw leven in.TAMORA. Titus, in Rome ben ik ingelijfd,Door mijn geluk nu als Romeinsche erkend,En 'k moet den keizer raden tot zijn heil.Sterve, Andronicus, heden elke twist,--En dat het, edel man, mijn eere zij,U en uw vrienden saam verzoend te hebben.--Wat u betreft, prins Bassianus, 'k hebDen keizer mijn belofte en woord verpand,Dat gij u zachter, buigzamer zult toonen.--Hebt, mannen,--ook Lavinia,--goeden moed,--En neemt gij raad aan, buigt dan nu de knie,En vraagt vergiff'nis aan zijn majesteit.LUCIUS. Wij doen 't; en hoor' de hemel en uw hoogheid:Al wat wij deden, was niet boos gemeend;'t Gold onzer zuster en onze eigene eer.MARCUS. Ja, dit betuig ik op mijn eer; zoo is 't.SATURNINUS. Van hier; geen woorden meer, stoort ons niet langer.TAMORA. Neen, heer, wij moeten allen vrienden zijn;Zie den tribuun daar knielen met zijn neven;Sla 't mij niet af; mijn beste, zie op hen!SATURNINUS. Marcus, om uwent- en uws broeders wil,En de' aandrang van mijn lieve Tamora,Vergeef ik dezer jonge lieden gruw'len.Rijst op!Lavinia, schoon gij smaad'lijk mij verliet,Ik vond een bruid, en zwoer bij dood en graf,Niet dan gehuwd te keeren van den priester.Komt; zoo ons hof twee bruidjes kan onthalen,Zijt gij mijn gast, Lavinia, met uw vrienden.--Een dag zij 't van verzoening, Tamora.TITUS. En morgen, zoo 't uw majesteit behaagtDen panther en het hert met mij te jagen,Begroeten wij met hoorn en hond uw hoogheid.SATURNINUS. Zoo zij het, Titus, en in dank aanvaard.(Trompetgeschal. Allen af.)TWEEDE BEDRIJF.EERSTE TOONEEL.Rome. Voor het paleis.Aaron komt op.AARON. Zoo klimt nu Tamora de' Olympus op,Voor 's noodlots pijl beschut; verheven zit zij,Door donderslag noch bliksemschicht te deren,Den dreigende' arm des bleeken nijds te hoog.Zooals de gouden zon den morgen groetEn met haar stralen de' oceaan verguldt,Daarna op vuur'ge kar haar baan doorrentEn neerblikt op de hoogste heuveltoppen,--Zoo Tamora.Aan haren geest is de eer der aarde dienstbaar,En bij haar fronsblik knielt en beeft de deugd.Dus, Aaron, maak uw hart en zin bereid,Om met uw vorstlijk lief omhoog te stijgen,Zoo hoog als zij, die ge in triumf zoo langGevangen hieldt, geboeid in liefdekeet'nen,En vastgesmeed aan Aarons tooverblik,Meer dan Prometheus aan den Kaukasus.Weg, slaafsche dracht en need'rige gedachtenIn goud en paarlen wil ik schitt'rend stralen,Der nieuwe keizerin ten dienste staan.Ten dienste, zeide ik? dart'len met deez' nymf,Met deez' godin, Semiramis, sirene,Die Rome's Saturninus zal betoov'ren,Hem en zijn rijk tot schipbreuk drijven zal.Ho! welk een storm is dit?(Demetrius en Chiron komen op, in heftigen twist.)DEMETRIUS. Chiron, gij zijt te jong, uw geest te stomp,Te plomp, dan dat gij daar u in kunt dringen,Waar ik wellicht reeds gunst en liefde vond.CHIRON. Demetrius, steeds blijkt gij overmoedig,En wilt ook thans met pochen mij verslaan.Die afstand van een jaar of twee maakt mijNiet min begaafd en u niet meer geliefd.Ik ben zoo goed als gij in staat, geschiktOm mijner schoone gunst door dienst te winnen;--En stave op u terstond mijn zwaard den gloedDer liefde, die ik voor Lavinia voed.AARON (ter zijde). Nu kalm wat, kalm! verliefde vredestoorders!DEMETRIUS. Wat, knaap! schoon onze moeder, onbedacht,Een dansrapier u om de heupen gespte,Zijt gij zoo driest, dat gij uw vrienden dreigt?Kom, laat uw lat maar in de scheede lijmen,Tot gij er beter mee weet om te gaan.CHIRON. Nu, hoe gering mijn vechtkunst dan ook zij,Ontwaren zult gij thans, hoeveel ik waag.DEMETRIUS. Wat! zoo vermetel, knaap?(Zij trekken het zwaard.)AARON (vooruittredend). Wat is dat, prinsen?Gij waagt het, zoo nabij des keizers slotHet zwaard te trekken en zoo luid te twisten?Ik weet zeer wel den grond van dit krakeel;Maar wenschte zelfs voor geen miljoen, dat de oorzaakAan hen bekend waar', die zij 't naast betreft;En voor veel meer nog wilde uw eed'le moederNiet zoo onteerd zich zien aan Rome's hof.Schaamt u, steekt op!DEMETRIUS. Neen, niet, voor ik mijn zwaardIn zijne borst geborgen heb en zooZijn gorgel weer de smaadtaal deed verzwelgen,Die hij daar tot mijn oneer heeft geuit.CHIRON. Daartoe ben ik bereid en vast besloten,Gij laffe smaler, die uw tong laat dond'ren,Maar met uw zwaard niets uit te voeren waagt.AARON. Van hier, zeg ik!Nu, bij de goden der krijgshafte Gothen,Ons allen zal die kindertwist verderven.Wat, heeren! spreekt, acht gij het niet gevaarlijk,Zich aan eens prinsen rechten te vergrijpen?Wat! is Lavinia zulk een losse deerne,Of Bassianus plots'ling zoo ontaard,Dat zulke twisten om haar min ontstaan,Zelfs zonder we?rstand, straf of wraak te duchten?O prinsen, wacht u!--zoo de keizerinDien wanklank hoort, zij vindt dien snerpend valsch.CHIRON. Nu, zij en heel de wereld mag het weten:Lavinia geldt mij meer dan heel de wereld.DEMETRIUS. Knaap, zijt gij wijs, doe dan een lager keus,Lavinia is uws oud'ren broeders wensch.AARON. Wat! zijt gij dol en weet gij niet, hoe vinnigEn ijverzuchtig zij in Rome zijn,En nooit in liefde mededingers dulden?Ik zeg u, 't is uw dood, dien gij beraamtMet zulk een aanslag.CHIRON.             Aaron, duizend doodenTrotseer ik, om te erlangen, die ik min.AARON. Te erlangen? wat!DEMETRIUS.         Kan dit u zoo bevreemden?Zij is een vrouw, en daarom wel te vragen;Zij is een vrouw, en daarom wel te winnen;Zij is Lavinia, dus beminnenswaard.Kom, man, meer water loopt den molen langs,Dan ooit de mool'naar weet; en 't is gemakk'lijkVan aangesneden brood een brok te stelen.Zij Bassianus ook des keizers broeder,Vulcanus' tooi heeft beet'ren zelfs gesierd.AARON (ter zijde). Ja, even goed als Saturninus zelf.DEMETRIUS. Waarom zou hij wanhopig zijn, die weet,Hoe woorden, blikken en geschenken werken?Kom, hebt ook gij niet vaak een ree geveld,En weggehaald voor 's koddebeiers neus?AARON. Nu, 't schijnt dan, dat een schaking of zoo ietsU dienstig waar?CHIRON.       Ja, zoo 't geluk ons diende.DEMETRIUS. Getroffen, Aaron!AARON.                 Nu, tref ook uw wit!Dan zijn wij af van zulk rumoer als dit.Maar hoort nu, hoort!--zijt gij nog zulke dwazen,Dat gij om zoo iets twist?--Zegt, zou 't u krenken,Indien gij beiden slaagdet?CHIRON.                  Mij niet, neen.DEMETRIUS. Mij evenmin, zoo ik er een van ben.AARON. Foei! eendracht winne u 't voorwerp van uw strijd.Door overleg en list moet gij verwerven,Wat gij beoogt; en dit sta bij u vast,Dat, kunt gij 't niet, zooals gij wilt, bekomen,Gij 't met geweld, zooals gij 't kunt, erlangt.Geloof van mij: Lucretia was niet kuischer,Dan deez' Lavinia, Bassianus' liefde.Een korter weg dan talmend liefdesmachtenZij dus gevolgd, en ik vond u het pad.Bedenkt, er is een groote jacht aanstaande;Die lokt een tal Romeinsche schoonen aan;De wand'ling van het woud is uitgestrekt,En biedt u menig onbetreden plek,Voor misdaad en verkrachting als geschapen.Lokt daar dit malsche reetje eenzaam heen,En velt het met geweld zoo niet met woorden.Zoo hebt gij hoop te slagen, anders niet.Komt, onze keizerin, wier helsche geestAan boosheid en aan wraak is toegewijd,Moet dit geheele plan van ons vernemen,Dan steunt zij onze ontwerpen met haar raad,En zal, uw onderlingen twist niet duldend,U beiden voeren tot uw hoogsten wensch.Des keizers hof is als het huis der Faam,'t Paleis vervuld van tongen, oogen, ooren,Het woud is wreed en schrikk'lijk, doof en stom;Spreekt, velt daar beurtlings, wakk're jongens, 't wild;Boet daar uw lust, beschut voor 's hemels oog,En doet u aan Lavinia's schat te goed.CHIRON. Uw raad, mijn jongen, zweemt naar lafheid niet.DEMETRIUS. Sit fas aut nefas; tot ik nu een stroomGevonden heb, die deze hitte koelt,En de betoov'ring, die mijn koortsen stilt,Per Styga, per manes vehor.(Allen af.)TWEEDE TOONEEL.Een woud. Horengeschal en hondengeblaf.Titus Andronicus komt op, met Jagers, enz.; verder Marcus, Lucius,Quintus en Marcius.TITUS. De jacht is re?, de morgen licht en klaar,De velden geurig en de wouden groen.De honden los! laat hen recht luide blaffen;Wekt zoo den keizer en zijn schoon jong vrouwtje,Alsook den prins; en laat den jachtgroet schallen,Zoodat geheel het hof den roep weerkaats'!Mijn zoons, het zij uw taak, gelijk de mijne,Voor den persoon des keizers goed te zorgen,'k Werd in mijn slaap van nacht gestoord, ontrust,Maar 't naad'ren van den dag gaf frisschen moed.(Horengeschal en hondengeblaf.)(Saturninus, Tamora, Bassianus, Lavinia, Demetrius en Chiron komenop, met Gevolg.)TITUS. Veel goede morgens, uwe majesteit;Vorstin, ook u recht vele en even goede:--Ik zeide een jachtgroet aan uw hoogheid toe.SATURNINUS. En lustig hebt gij dien geblazen, heer,Voor jonggehuwde vrouwtjes zelfs wat vroeg.BASSIANUS. Lavinia, wat zegt gij?LAVINIA.                          Ik zeg van neen;Klaar wakker was ik reeds twee uur en meer.SATURNINUS. Komaan dan, paarden, wagens voorgebracht;En fluks naar 't woud. (Tot Tamora.) Vorstin, nu zult gij eens't Romeinsche jagen zien.MARCUS.                Heer, honden heb ik,Die zelfs den fiersten panter op doen rijzen,En klaut'ren op het steilste voorgebergt'.TITUS. Ik paarden, die het wild alomme volgen,En als een zwaluw scheren over 't veld.DEMETRIUS (tot Chiron). Wij, Chiron, jagen niet met paard en hond,Maar grijpen 't reetje en rukken 't op den grond.(Allen af.)DERDE TOONEEL.Een eenzaam gedeelte van het woud.Aaron komt op met een buidel vol goud.AARON. Wie zijn verstand heeft, denkt dat ik het mis,Omdat ik zooveel goud bij dezen boomBegraaf om 't nooit weer in bezit te nemen.Nu, wie zoo min van mij mocht denken, wete,Dat mij dit goud een aanslag munten moet,Die, als hij met beleid wordt uitgevoerd,Een allerprachtig boevenstuk verwekt;Rust dus, lief goud, opdat gij onrust brengtAan wie de kist der keizerin u schenkt.(Hij verbergt het goud.)(Tamora komt op.)TAMORA. Mijn lieflijke Aaron, waarom ziet gij ernstig,Terwijl wedijv'rend alles blijde kijkt?Uit ied'ren struik klinkt voog'lenmelodie;De slang ligt in den zonn'schijn sa?mgerold;De blaad'ren trillen in den koelen wind,En teek'nen schaduwplekken op den grond.Kom, gaan wij, Aaron, onder 't loofdak zitten,En luist'ren wij,--terwijl de bauwende echo't Welluidend horenschallen schril bespot,En, daar een dubb'le jacht vernomen wordt,De honden fopt en tergt,--naar 't luid geblaf,Om na een strijd,--zooals vermoed wordt, datDe vorst, die zwierf, en Dido eens genoten,Toen heilaanbrengend hen een storm verrasteEn met een grot, die zwijgen kon, omsloot,Dan, door elkanders armen dicht omstrengeld,Na 't spel der minne een gouden slaap te doen,Waarbij het hondgeblaf, het hoorngeschal,'t Zoet vogellied de wiegezang ons zijnDer voedster, die haar liev'ling in doet sluim'ren.AARON. Vorstin, besture Venus uw begeerten,Saturnus' invloed is 't, die mij beheerscht.Of wat beduidt mijn dood'lijk starend oog,Mijn zwijgen en mijn diep zwaarmoedig voorhoofd,Mijn wollig hoofdhaar, dat zich nu ontkroest,Gelijk een adder, als hij zich ontroltOm fel een onontwijkb'ren dood te brengen?Neen, neen, vorstin, dit zijn geen Venusteekens;Wraak is er in mijn hart, dood in mijn hand;Bloed zijn 't en wraak, die haam'ren in mijn hoofd.Hoor, Tamora, vorstinne mijner ziele,Die op geen hemel hoopt dan dien in u,'t Is heden Bassianus' oordeelsdag,Waarop zijn Philomela tongloos wordt,Uw zoons haar kuischheid rooven tot een buit,En in het bloed haars mans hun handen wasschen.Gij ziet hier dezen brief? hier, neem hem, bid ik,En geef den koning dit verderflijk schrift.--Vraag thans niet meer, wij worden reeds bespied;Daar komt een deel des buits, waarop wij hopen,Die van het nakend doodsuur nog niet droomt.TAMORA. O lieve Moor, mij liever dan het leven!AARON. Vorstin, geen woord meer; Bassianus komt;Zoek twist met hem; uw zoons haal ik er bij,Om, w??r ook uw krakeel om zij, te helpen.(Aaron af.)(Bassianus en Lavinia komen op.)BASSIANUS. Wie zien wij hier? is 't Rome's keizerin,Verstoken van 't gevolg, dat haar betaamt?Of is 't misschien, in haar gewaad, Diana,Die haar gewijde dreven eens verlaat,Om hier in 't woud de groote jacht te zien?TAMORA. Gij driest bespieder van mijn stille gangen,Hadde ik de macht, Diana, zegt men, eigen,Dan plantte ik oogenblikk'lijk op de slapenU horens, als Act?on had, opdatUw honden uw veranderd lijf besprongen;Indringende onbeschaamde, die gij zijt!LAVINIA. Vergeef mij, lieve keizerin, men schrijft uEen groot talent van hoornopzetten toe;En 't wordt vermoed, dat zich uw Moor en gijAfzonderden tot oef'ning in die kunst.De hemel hoede uw man thans voor zijn honden,'t Waar' boos, als zij hem hielden voor een hert.BASSIANUS. Geloof me, uw donkere Kimmeri?r doetVorstin, uw eer gelijk zijn huid, bevlekt,Zwart en verfoeilijk, afschuwwekkend zijn.Waartoe zijt gij van uw gevolg gescheiden,En afgestegen van uw sneeuwwit ros,En afgedwaald naar deze duist're plek,Van een barbaarschen Moor alleen verzeld,Zoo booze lust u hier niet heeft gebracht?LAVINIA. En nu gij wordt gestoord in uw vermaak,Moet gij,--dit spreekt van zelf,--mijn eed'len gadeOm driestheid gispen!--Lieve, gaan wij heen;Laat haar 't genot van haar raafkleur'gen boel;Dit donk're dal voldoet aan haar bedoeling.BASSIANUS. Den koning, mijnen broeder, doe ik 't kennen.LAVINIA. Juist; lang reeds was hij kenn'lijk door hun doen;Een vorst, zoo goed en toch zoo boos bedrogen!TAMORA. Waarom heb ik 't geduld om dit te dragen?(Demetrius en Chiron komen op.)DEMETRIUS. Wat, waarde keizerin, doorluchte moeder,Hoe ziet uw hoogheid zoo ontdaan en bleek?TAMORA. Heb ik geen reden, denkt ge, om bleek te zien?Die twee daar hebben mij hierheen gelokt;Gij ziet, het is een woest, afschuwlijk dal,De boomen, trots den zomer, schraal, ontblaard,Geheel met mos bedekt en boozen mistel.Nooit schijnt de zon hier en geen vogel broedt er,Dan dagschuwe uilen en onzaal'ge raven.Zij toonden mij dit schrikverwekkend dal,En zeiden, dat in 't holste van de nachtEen duizend booze geesten, duizend slangen,Tien duizend egels en gezwollen padden,Dooreen, er zulke gruwb're kreten slaakten,Dat ieder sterflijk wezen, dat ze hoort,Terstond waanzinnig wordt of plots'ling sterft.En nauwlijks was dit helsch verhaal verteld,Of zij bedreigden mij, dat ze aan den tronkMij binden zouden van een giftige' ief,Ter prooi aan zulk een jammerrijken dood.Toen noemden zij mij schaamt'looze overspeelsterEn wulpsche Gothenvrouw, kortom, al watHet oor van bitt're smaadtaal ooit vernam;En had geen wonder u hierheen gevoerd,Dan hadden zij hun dreiging waar gemaakt.Wreekt dit, is u uw moeders leven lief,Of ik erken niet langer u als zoons.DEMETRIUS. Dat ik uw zoon ben, moge dit getuigen.(Hij doorsteekt Bassianus.)CHIRON. Ook dit is raak en tuige voor mijn kracht.(Hij doorsteekt hem eveneens. Bassianus sterft.)LAVINIA. O kom, Semiramis,--Of neen, barbaarsche Tamora, kom gij,--Geen naam dan de uwe past bij uw natuur.TAMORA. Geef mij uw dolk, en gij zult zien, mijn knapen,Uw moeders hand wreekt uwer moeder smaad.DEMETRIUS. Neen, toef, vorstin, meer komt haar toe dan dit;Dorsch eerst het graan, en dan, verbrand het stroo.Dit popje droeg op hare kuischheid roem,Haar huwlijkseed, haar trouw, en zij braveerdeMet dien schijnschoonen waan zelfs uwe macht;En zal zij dien met zich ten grave nemen?CHIRON. 'k Moge een gesneed'ne zijn, eer zij dit doet.Neen, sleep haar gade naar een heimlijk hol;Tot peluw strekk' dat lijk bij onzen lust.TAMORA. Maar als gij den begeerden honig hebt,Laat dan die wesp niet leven, dat ze ons steek'.CHIRON. Nu 'k zweer, vorstin, wees hieromtrent gerust.Kom, liefje, wij genieten met geweldThans uwe preutsch beveiligde eerbaarheid.LAVINIA. O Tamora, 't gelaat hebt ge eener vrouw,--TAMORA. 'k Wil haar niet hooren spreken; weg met haar!LAVINIA. Smeekt, lieve prinsen, haar, ??n woord te hooren!DEMETRIUS. Hoor haar, vorstin; het zij uw roem, haar tranenTe aanschouwen; doch voor deze zij uw hart,Wat harde keien zijn voor regendroppels.LAVINIA (tot Demetrius). Gaf ooit een tijgerwelp zijn moeder les?Leer haar niet boos te zijn, zij leerde 't u;De melk, waarmee ze u zoogde, werd tot marmer;Aan haren tepel dronkt ge uw wreedheid reeds.Maar alle moederzoons zijn niet gelijk;(Tot Chiron.) Smeek gij haar, deernis met een vrouw te toonen.CHIRON. Wat! wilt gij, dat ik mij een basterd toon?LAVINIA. 't Is waar, geen raaf broedt ooit een leeuwrik uit;Maar toch, ik hoorde,--o vond ik 't nu gestaafd!--Hoe zelfs de leeuw uit deernis heeft geduld,Dat men zijn koningsklauwen kortte en wegnam.Ook raven, zegt men, voed'ren vondelingen,Al hong'ren dan hun jongen in het nest;O wees voor mij, al zegge uw hard hart neen,Zoo al niet vriendlijk, toch niet deernisloos.TAMORA. 'k Weet niet, wat deernis is; thans weg met haar!LAVINIA. Laat mij 't u leeren. Om mijns vaders wil,Die u liet leven, toen hij u kon dooden,Wees thans niet doof, maar leen mijn beden 't oor.TAMORA. Al hadt gij in persoon mij nooit gekrenkt,Om zijnentwille ben ik deernisloos.Denkt, knapen, hoe 'k vergeefs mijn tranen plengde,Opdat uw broeder niet geofferd wierd;Maar Andronicus bleef toen onbewogen.Dies weg met haar, en doet met haar uw wil;Wie 't meest haar deert, zal mij het liefste zijn.LAVINIA. O Tamora, verwerf den naam van goed,En geef mij hier den dood met uwe hand.Om 't leven heb ik niet zoo lang gesmeekt,Ik arme stierf, toen Bassianus viel.TAMORA. En waarom smeekt gij dan? dwaas schepsel, laat mij.LAVINIA. Ik smeek een onverwijlden dood, en ookNog iets, dat schaamte mij belet te noemen.O hoed mij voor hun lust, die meer dan doodMij dreigt, en werp mij in een vuilen poel,Waar nimmer menschenoog mijn lijk aanschouwe;Doe dit en wees een zachte moordnares.TAMORA. Dan roofde ik aan mijn lieve zoons hun loon;Neen, dat zij vrij hun lusten met u boeten.DEMETRIUS. Kom, weg! gij hieldt ons veel te lang hier op.LAVINIA. Geen hart? geen vrouwlijkheid? Beestachtig wezen!Gij vlek en vijandin van ons geslacht!Moge u 't verderf--CHIRON. Thans stop ik u den mond.--Neem gij haar man;In dien kuil zeide ons Aaron hem te bergen.(Demetrius werpt het lijk van Bassianus in den kuil; daarop gaanDemetrius en Chiron heen, Lavinia medesleurend.)TAMORA. Vaartwel, mijn zoons; weest zeker, dat zij zwijgt.--Geen echte vroolijkheid verheugt mijn hart,Eer al die Andronici zijn verdelgd.Thans, lieve Moor, kan ik tot u mij wenden,En laat mijn zoons die deerne lustig schenden.(Tamora af.)(Aaron komt weder op, met Quintus en Marcius.)AARON. Treedt, heeren, voort, den besten voet vooruit!Terstond wijs ik den vuilen kuil u aan,Waar ik den panter zag in diepen slaap.QUINTUS. Mijn oog wordt plotsling dof; wat duidt dit aan?MARCIUS. Voorwaar, ook 't mijne. Zoo ik mij niet schaamde,'k Verliet de jacht en zou een slaapje doen.(Hij valt in den kuil.)QUINTUS. Wat! vielt gij daar?--Wat valsche kuil is dit,Zoo overgroeid met wilde dorenstruiken?En op hun blaad'ren droppels bloed, zoo frisch,Als morgendauw, die bloemen overparelt?Dit schijnt mij inderdaad een onheilsplek.Spreek, broeder, zijt gij bij uw val verwond?MARCIUS. Ach, broeder, ja, door 't zien van iets zoo gruwlijks,Als ooit het oog door 't hart bejamm'ren deed.AARON (ter zijde). Nu zorg ik, dat de koning hen hier vindt,Opdat hij met waarschijnlijkheid vermoede,Dat zij het waren, die zijn broeder doodden.(Aaron af.)MARCIUS. Wat draalt gij met vertroostend mij te helpenUit dit vervloekt, met bloed bezoedeld hol?QUINTUS. Een vreemde schrik beving mij; 't kille zweetLoopt tapp'lings langs mijn rillende gewrichten;Mijn hart vermoedt meer dan mijn oog kan zien.MARCIUS. Uw voorgevoel is juist; wilt gij dit zien,Zoo blik met Aaron in dit hol eens neer,En zie een gruw'lijk beeld van bloed en dood.QUINTUS. Aaron is weg en mijn bewogen hartVergunt mijn oogen niet om dat te zien,Waarvan 't vermoeden reeds mij rillen doet.O zeg mij, wat het is; want nooit voor nuWas ik een kind en vreesde 'k weet niet wat.MARCIUS. Prins Bassianus, in zijn bloed gewenteld,Ligt als een klomp, als een verslagen lam,In dit vervloekt en donker, bloedig hol.QUINTUS. Is 't donker daar, hoe weet gij, dat hij 't is?MARCIUS. Aan zijn bebloeden vinger steekt een ringMet kostb'ren steen, die heel het hol verlicht,En, als een fakkel in een grafgewelf,Des dooden vale wangen hel beschijnt,En 't bloedig ingewand der grot onthult;Zoo bleek scheen eens op Pyramus de maan,Toen hij bij nacht in 't bloed der maagd gebaad lag.O broeder, help mij met uw zwakke hand,--Want licht heeft angst, als mij, ? zwak gemaakt--Uit dit verslindend, vratig lijkenhuis,Zoo schrikk'lijk als Cocytus' duist'ren mond.QUINTUS. Reik mij uw hand, dan help ik u er uit;En schiet mijn kracht te kort om u te helpen,Dan storte ook ik in den begeer'gen schootVan 't diepe hol, het graf van de' armen prins.--Ik heb geen kracht om u tot hier te trekken.MARCIUS. En ik niet, om alleen omhoog te klaut'ren.QUINTUS. Nog eens uw hand: ik laat die niet meer los,Eer gij hierboven zijt, of ik beneden.--Gij komt niet op tot mij; ik kom tot u.(Hij valt mede in den kuil.)(Saturninus en Aaron komen op).SATURNINUS. Volg mij; zelf wil ik zien, wat kuil hier is,En wie het was, die er zoo even insprong.Spreek, wie zijt gij, die daar zijt afgedaaldIn deze gapende oop'ning van den grond?MARCIUS. De onzaal'ge zoon van de' ouden Andronicus,Te boozer uur er heen gevoerd, om hierUw broeder Bassianus dood te vinden.SATURNINUS. Mijn broeder dood! Nu zie ik, dat gij schertst;Hij en zijn gade zijn in 't jagershuis,Aan 't noordereind van 't schoone jachtgebied;'t Is nog geen uur, sinds ik hen daar verliet.MARCIUS. Ik weet niet, waar gij 't laatst hem levend zaagt,Maar, o helaas! hier vonden wij hem dood.(Tamora komt weder op, met Gevolg; verder Titus Andronicus enLUCIUS.)TAMORA. Waar is de koning, mijn gemaal?SATURNINUS. Hier, Tamora, door dood'lijk leed bedroefd.TAMORA. Waar is uw broeder Bassianus?SATURNINUS. Nu peilt gij juist den bodem van mijn wond;Vermoord ligt hier mijn arme Bassianus.TAMORA (aan Saturninus een brief overreikend).Zoo breng ik dezen onheilsbrief te laat,Die de' aanslag inhoudt van dit gruw'lijk treurspel,En sta verstomd, dat eenig menschlijk aanzichtBloeddorst in lieve lachjes hullen kan.SATURNINUS (leest). "Zoo wij hem niet geschikt ontmoeten kunnen,--Wij meenen Bassianus, beste jager,--Doe gij 't voor ons en delf hem dan zijn graf;Gij weet thans wat wij wenschen. Zoek uw loon:'t Ligt onder netels aan den voet des vlierbooms,Die de' ingang overschaduwt van den kuil,Door ons tot Bassianus' graf bestemd.Doe dit en maak ons eeuwig tot uw vrienden."O Tamora! werd ooit zoo iets gehoord?Hier is de kuil, en dit, dit is de vlierboom.Zoekt, heeren, of gij ook den jager vindt,Die Bassianus hier vermoorden moest.AARON. En, beste vorst, hier is de zak met goud.SATURNINUS (tot Titus). Twee van uw welpen, honden, heet op bloed,Beroofden hier mijn broeder van het leven.--Sleept, mannen, uit den kuil hen naar den kerker;Sluit daar hen op, tot wij voor hen een martling,Nog nooit vernomen, hebben uitgedacht.TAMORA. Wat! zijn zij daar, in dezen kuil? O wonder!Hoe ras wordt toch een moord aan 't licht gebracht!TITUS. Mijn keizer, op mijn zwakke knie?n smeek ik,Met tranen, die ik moeilijk stort, de gunst,Dat deze schuld van mijn vervloekte zoons,--Vervloekt, indien hun schuld bewezen wordt,--SATURNINUS. Bewezen wordt? gij ziet, zij is klaarblijk'lijk;--Wie vond den brief? waart gij het, Tamora?TAMORA. Neen, Andronicus zelf was 't, die hem opnam.TITUS. Zoo is het, heer; doch laat voor hen mij borg zijn.Ik zweer bij mijner vaad'ren heilig graf:Op uwer hoogheid wenk staan zij bereid,Al moog' het onderzoek hun leven gelden.SATURNINUS. Geen borgtocht, neen; maar zorg, dat gij mij volgt.--Gij, brengt den doode, gij de moord'naars na;Laat hen niet spreken; duid'lijk is hun schuld;En bij mijn ziel, bestond er boozer eindDan dood, dat erger eind viel hun te beurt.TAMORA. Ik wil den keizer smeeken, Andronicus;Wees zonder zorg om hen, het gaat wel goed.TITUS. Kom, Lucius, kom; tracht niet met hen te spreken.(Allen af.)VIERDE TOONEEL.Een ander gedeelte van het woud.Demetrius en Chiron komen op, met de geschonden Lavinia; dehanden zijn haar af gehouwen, de tong uitgesneden.DEMETRIUS. Indien uw tong kan spreken, ga dan nu,Zeg, wie de tong u uitsneed en u schond.CHIRON. Schrijf neder wat gij weet, onthul het zoo;Speel, laten dit uw stompen toe, voor schrijver.DEMETRIUS. Zie, hoe zij schrappen, teekens krabb'len kan.CHIRON. Ga huiswaarts, roep om water, wasch uw handen.DEMETRIUS. Voor 't roepen mist ze een tong, voor 't wasschen handen,Dus laat haar nu haar stille wegen gaan.CHIRON. Waar 't mijn geval, ik ging en hing mij op.DEMETRIUS. Ja, als gij handen hadt om 't koord te knoopen.(Demetrius en Chiron af.)(Horengeschal achter het tooneel. Marcus komt op, van de jacht.)MARCUS. Wie is dat daar?--mijn nicht, die ijlings vlucht?Geef antwoord, nichtje; zeg, waar is uw man?Zoo 'k droom, 'k geef al mijn have, om weer te ontwaken!Zoo 'k waak, bestraal' terstond me een booze sterEn vell' mij om den eeuw'gen slaap te sluimren!--Spreek, lieve nicht, wat ruwe wreede handVerminkte uw lijf en hieuw dat zoet sieraadU af, de beide takken, in wier schaduwZich vorsten gaarne hadden neergevlijd,Die toch het hooge heil niet mochten smakenVan uwe liefde? Waarom spreekt gij niet?--Helaas, een purp'ren stroom, warm bloed,--een bron,Die opwelt en door stormen trilt, gelijk,Rijst, daalt daar tusschen uwe rozenlippen,Komt, gaat met elken zoeten ademtocht.Ach, zeker heeft een Tereus u geschonden,En, straffe duchtend, u de tong ontrukt!Ach! thans wendt gij 't gelaat af, diep beschaamd!En schoon u al dit kostlijk bloed ontstroomt,Als uit een drietal spruiten wellend water,Zien toch uw wangen rood als Titans aanschijn,Die bloost, als hem een wolk te tarten waagt.Zal ik voor u het woord doen? zeggen, "'t is zoo?"O kende ik thans uw hart! kende ik het beest,Dat ik het smaadde om mijn gemoed te koelen!Verholen leed,--als een gesloten oven,--Verbrandt het hart, waarin het woont, tot asch.Slechts tongloos werd de schoone Philomela;Zij stikte in 't droevig weefsel haar gemoed;U, lieve nicht, sneed men dit middel af;Een sluwer Tereus was 't, die u belaagde;En die sneed u die fijne vingers af,Wier arbeid Philomela hadd' beschaamd.O, had het monster ooit die leliehandenAls espenblad zien trillen op een luit,Zoodat de zijden snaren te?r die kusten,Zelfs niet voor 't leven had hij ze aangeroerd;Had hij de hemelmelodie gehoord,Die stroomde van die zoete tong, zijn mesWaar' hem ontvallen, hij in slaap verzonken,Gelijk voor Orpheus' voeten Cerberus.Kom, gaan wij om uw vader blind te maken;Want zulk een aanblik blindt eens vaders oog;E?n uur van storm verdrinkt een geur'ge beemd;Kan 't vaderoog dan maanden weenens lijden?Wijk niet terug; wij willen met u klagen;O, hielp u onze kracht de ellende dragen!(Beiden af.)DERDE BEDRIJF.EERSTE TOONEEL.Rome. Een straat.Senatoren, Tribunen en Rechters komen op, met Marcius en Quintus,die geboeid ter terechtstelling gevoerd worden; Titus gaat alssmeekeling voor hen uit.TITUS. Hoort, achtb're vaders! gij tribunen, staat!Denkt, ik ben oud nu, en ik sleet mijn jeugdIn woesten krijg, terwijl gij zorgloos sliept;Denkt aan al 't bloed, dat ik voor Rome stortte,Aan meen'ge winternacht, die ik doorwaakte,Aan deze bitt're tranen, die gij nuDe rimpels van mijn wangen vullen ziet,En schenkt mijn zoons, veroordeeld thans, genade;Hun hart is niet zoo slecht, als 't wordt gewaand.Om twee-en-twintig zonen weende ik nooit,Wijl zij op 't edel bed der eere stierven;(Hij werpt zich op den grond.)Om dezen schrijf ik thans in 't stof, tribunen,Mijn harteleed en mijner ziele tranen.Laat mij der aarde dorst met tranen lesschen;Zij wierd schaamrood van mijner zonen bloed.(De Senatoren, Tribunen enz. gaan met de Gevangenen door.)O aarde, ik wil u meer met vocht verkwikken,Dat uit deez' twee verweerde kruiken vliet,Dan jonge April 't vermag met al zijn buien;In zomerdroogte drenk ik u; des wintersSmelt ik met heete tranen u de sneeuw;Ik wek een eeuw'ge lente op uw gelaat,Indien gij 't bloed wilt weig'ren van mijn zoons.(Lucius komt op, met uitgetogen zwaard.)Eed'le tribunen! zacht gestemde grijsaards!Ontboeit mijn zonen en herroept uw vonnis,Dat ik, die nooit voordezen weende, zegg':Mijn tranen zijn een onafwijsb're voorspraak.LUCIUS. Uw weeklacht, eed'le vader, is vergeefsch;Hier hoort u geen tribuun; geen mensch is hier;'t Is aan een steen, dat gij uw kommer klaagt.TITUS. O Lucius, laat mij pleiten voor uw broeders.--Eed'le tribunen, nogmaals smeek ik u,--LUCIUS. Mijn vader, geen tribuun verneemt uw woorden.TITUS. 't Is eender, knaap; al hoorden ze ook, zij zoudenEr niet op letten; letten zij er op,Er niet geroerd door zijn; toch moet ik spreken,Hoe nutt'loos ook.Daarom meld ik mijn kommer aan de steenen,Die, ja, geen antwoord geven op mijn klacht,Maar hierin beter dan tribunen zijn,Dat zij mij zonder stoornis laten spreken.Zie, als ik ween, dan nemen zij mijn tranenDeemoedig op en weenen schier met mij;En waren zij slechts statig aangekleed,Tribunen, hun gelijk, had Rome niet.Zacht is een steen als was, steenhard tribunen;Stom is een steen en krenkt niet, doch tribunen,Zij hebben tongen, die ten doode doemen.(Hij rijst op.)Doch waarom staat gij met getrokken zwaard?LUCIUS. Om van den dood mijn broeders te bevrijden;En voor die poging hebben mij de rechtersVeroordeeld tot een eeuw'ge ballingschap.TITUS. Gelukkig man! wat deden zij u goed!Wat, dwaze Lucius, hebt gij niet bespeurd,Dat Rome een wildernis vol tijgers is?Wat tijger is, wil buit, en Rome biedtGeen buit dan mij, de mijnen. Dus, heil ?,Die ver van die verslinders wordt verbannen!Doch wie komt met mijn broeder Marcus daar?(Marcus en Lavinia komen op.)MARCUS. Titus, bereid uw edel oog tot weenen,Of kunt gij 't niet, uw edel hart tot breken;'k Voeg bij uw ouderdom verterend wee.TITUS. Zal 't mij verteren? laat het mij dan zien.MARCUS. Dit was uw dochter.TITUS.                      Marcus, zij is 't nog.LUCIUS. Wee mij, die aanblik doodt mij.TITUS. Zwakhartig jong'ling, rijs, en zie haar aan.--Lavinia, spreek! wat vloekb're hand heeft uHandloos gemaakt voor de oogen van uw vader?Wat zotskap goot ooit water bij de zee,Of wierp in Troja's laaien brand een mutsaard?Hoog was mijn leed gestegen, eer gij kwaamt,Thans spot het als de zee met elken dam.--Geef mij een zwaard, dan kappe ook ik mijn handen,Wijl zij voor Rome streden, en vergeefs,En, 't lijf verzorgend, dezen jammer voedden;Tot ijd'le beden hief ik haar omhoog,Zij dienden mij tot nutteloos gebruik;Geen dienst meer eisch ik thans van haar dan deze,Dat de eene helpe om de andere af te kappen.--Goed is 't, dat gij geen handen hebt, Lavinia;In dienst van Rome helpen handen niets.LUCIUS. Spreek, lieve zuster, wie heeft u gemarteld?MARCUS. Helaas! dat lieflijk werktuig der gedachten,Dat die zoo zoet en zoo welsprekend uitte,Is weggereten uit de schoone kooi,Waar 't als een vogel melodie?n zong,Toonrijk, welluidend, ieder oor betoov'rend!LUCIUS. Zeg gij voor haar dan, wie dit stuk bedreef.MARCUS. O, 'k vond haar zoo, omdwalend in het woudEn pogend weg te schuilen, als een ree,Die een onheelb're wond ontvangen heeft.TITUS. Zij was mijn ree; wie haar verwondde, heeftMij erger dan een doodwond toegebracht.Nu sta ik hier, als iemand op een klip,Omgordeld door een woestenij van zee,Die 't wassend tij met golf op golf ziet stijgen,En immer wacht, dat fluks de felle brandingHem zal verzwelgen in haar zilten schoot.Ginds zijn mijn arme zoons ter dood gegaan;Hier staat mijn and're zoon als banneling,En hier mijn broeder, weenend om mijn wee;Maar wat het felst mijn ziele grieft, mijn dierb'reLavinia is 't, mij dierb'rer dan mijn ziel;--Hadde ik uw beelt'nis zoo verminkt gezien,Het had mij dol gemaakt; wat word ik thans,Nu ik uw levend wezen zoo aanschouw?Geen handen hebt ge om tranen af te wisschen,Geen tong om wie u martelde ooit te noemen;Uw gade is dood, en om zijn dood uw broedersVeroordeeld en voorzeker nu reeds dood.Zie, Marcus; ach, zoon Lucius, zie haar aan;Nu ik haar broeders noem, staan op haar wangenWeer versche tranen, als een zoete dauwOp een geplukte en schier verlepte lelie.MARCUS. Zij weent wellicht, wijl zij haar gade doodden,Wellicht ook, wijl zij hen onschuldig weet.TITUS. Zoo zij uw gade doodden, wees dan blijde,Dat nu de wet zich met de wraak belast.--Neen, neen, zij deden zulk een wandaad niet;'t Leeddragen van hun zuster tuigt voor hen.--Lavinia-lief, laat mij uw lippen kussen,Of zeg door teekens, hoe ik troosten kan.Of zullen wij, uw oom, uw broeder Lucius,Gij, ik, te zamen aan een beek gaan zitten,Er in zien ter beschouwing onzer wangen,Hoe die ontkleurd zijn, als nog vochte weiden,Waar pas een stroom zijn slib op achterliet?En staren wij dan zoo lang in de beek,Totdat zijn helder nat niet zoet meer smaakt,En ziltig werd van onze bitt're tranen?Of kappen we onze handen af als de uwe?Of bijten we ons de tong af en doorlevenIn stom gebaar des levens droeve rest?Wat doen wij? Spreekt! laat ons, die tongen rijk zijn,Een schrander plan van verd're ellend ontwerpen,Opdat we een wonder zijn voor laat'ren tijd.LUCIUS. Mijn vader, stuit uw tranen; bij ons wee,Zie, hoe mijn arme zuster snikt en schreit.MARCUS. Stil, lieve nicht;--gij, Titus, droog uw oogen.TITUS. Ach, Marcus, Marcus! broeder, 'k weet te goed,Uw zakdoek kan geen traan van mij meer drinken,Want gij hebt zelf met de uwe hem gedrenkt.LUCIUS. Lavinia, kom, ik wisch uw wangen af.TITUS. Zie, Marcus, zie! Haar teekens zijn mij duid'lijk;Had zij een tong, zij zeide tot haar broederHetzelfde, wat ik u pas heb gezegd;Zijn zakdoek, nat van echte tranen, kanNiet dienen voor haar kommervolle wangen.Wat meegevoel! elks kommer is gelijk;Doch troost zoo ver, als heil van 't schimmenrijk!(Aaron komt weder op.)AARON. Mijn heer, de keizer--Titus Andronicus--Meldt u door mij, dat, zoo ge uw zoons bemint,Gij, oude Titus, Lucius, of gij, Marcus,Wie uwer ook, de hand zich af moog' houwenEn aan den keizer zenden; daarvoor zendtHij beide uw zoons u levend hier terug,En dit zal 't losgeld zijn voor hunne schuld.TITUS. O beste, goede keizer! vriendlijke Aaron!Zong ooit een raaf zoo zoet, gelijk een leeuwrik,Die 't heilnieuws meldt van de opkomst van de zon?Van ganscher hart zend ik mijn hand den keizer.Vriend Aaron, helpt gij mij om ze af te houwen?LUCIUS. Neen, vader! neen, die eed'le hand van u,Die zoo, zoo meen'gen vijand velde, magGeen losprijs zijn; de mijne is goed genoeg.Mijn jeugd ontbeert veel lichter 't bloed; daaromMoog' mijne hand der broeders leven redden.MARCUS. Welke uwer handen, spreek, heeft Rome nietBehoed, de felle krijgsakst niet gezwaaid,Op 's vijands helm verdelging niet geschreven?O, geen van beide, die niet roemrijk was.Mijn hand heeft niets verricht; sta toe, dat zijMijn beide neven vrijkoop' van den dood,Dan heb ik haar gespaard tot edel doel.AARON. Komt, wordt het eens, wiens hand ik medeneem;Zij sterven anders v??r 't genadewoord.MARCUS. Mijn hand zij losprijs.LUCIUS.                Bij den hemel, neen!TITUS. Geen strijd meer; kruiden, zoo verwelkt als deze,Zijn rijp voor 't wieden; daarom zij 't mijn hand.LUCIUS. Gun, lieve vader, zoo 'k uw zoon zal heeten,Dat ik mijn broeders van den dood bevrijd.MARCUS. Om onzes vaders, onzer moeder wil,Moge ik mijn broederliefde u thans betoonen!TITUS. Zoo wordt het samen eens; ik spaar mijn hand.LUCIUS. Nu, dan haal ik een bijl.MARCUS. Maar ik gebruik die bijl.(Lucius en Marcus af.)TITUS. Kom, Aaron, kom; die twee wil ik bedriegen;Leen mij uw hand, dan geef ik u de mijne.AARON (ter zijde). Heet dit bedrog, dan word ik eerlijk man,En nimmer zal ik zoo een mensch bedriegen;--Doch u bedrieg ik op een and're wijs;En geen half uur zal om zijn, eer gij 't zegt.(Hij houwt Titus' hand af.)(Lucius en Marcus komen terug.)TITUS. Uit hebbe uw twist; gedaan is, wat te doen was.--Vriend Aaron, geef zijn majesteit mijn hand,Zeg hem, dit was een hand, die hem voor duizendGevaren hoedde; dat hij haar begraav';Haar loon moest grooter zijn, maar dit erlang' zij.En wat mijn zoons betreft, zeg, dat ik henKleinodi?n acht, tot kleinen prijs verworven,--En toch wel duur; 't was 't mijne, wat ik kocht.AARON. Ik spoed mij, Andronicus; en welrasZult gij uw beide zoons weer bij u zien.(Ter zijde.) Hun hoofden, meen ik.--O, die schurkenstreekLaaft, voedt mij reeds, nu ik er slechts aan denk!Dat goeddoen narren, bidden blanken sticht';Doch Aarons ziel zij zwart als zijn gezicht!(Aaron af.)TITUS. O, hier hef ik deze eene hand ten hemel,En deze zwakke stomp hang' neer,--ter aard.Heeft een'ge macht met arme tranen deernis,Die roep ik aan.--(Tot Lavinia.) Wat! wilt gij met mij knielen?Ja, goed; de hemel moet ons smeeken hooren,Of wij ontglanzen 't hemelwelf met zuchtenEn dooven 't licht der zon met damp als wolken,Die soms haar hullen in haar vochten schoot.MARCUS. O broeder, spreek toch van wat moog'lijk is,En barst niet uit in maatloos diepe klachten!TITUS. Is dan mijn leed niet diep en bodemloos?Zoo bodemloos moge ook mijn jamm'ren zijn.MARCUS. Maar dat de rede toch uw klacht beheersch'!TITUS. Indien er reden waar voor deze ellenden,Dan kerkerde ik in perken al mijn wee.Stroomt de aard niet over, als de hemel weent?En, raast de storm, wordt dan de zee niet dol,Zwelt haar gelaat niet op, 't gewelf bedreigend?En eischt gij reden nog voor dezen storm?Ik ben de zee, hoor, hoe haar zuchten razen!Zij is het weenend hemelwelf, ik de aard;Zoo moet mijn zee wel van haar zuchten zwalpen;Zoo moet mijn aarde van haar eindloos weenenEen zondvloed worden, overstroomd, bedolven.Mijn ingewand kan al dit wee niet bergen;Ik spuw het uit, gelijk een dronkaard doet.Vergunt mij dit; vergund wordt den verliezer,Dat hij met bitt're tong zich lucht verschaff'.(Een Bode komt op, met twee hoofden en een hand.)BODE. Eed'le Andronicus, slecht vergeldt men uDie goede hand, die gij den keizer zondt.Hier zijn de hoofden van uw eed'le zoons,En hier uw hand, met hoon u weergezonden;Uw smart hun spel, uw kloeke moed hun spot.Dit wee is mij, bij 't denken aan uw wee,Meer leed dan 't denken aan mijns vaders dood.(De Bode af.--Titus bezwijmt.)MARCUS. Sicili?'s gloeiende ?tna moog' verkoelen,Mijn hart zij nu een eeuwig laaie hel!Dit leed is grooter dan te dragen is.Me?schreien met die schreien brengt wel troost,Maar leed, door hoon verscherpt, is dubb'le dood.LUCIUS. Ach, dat deze aanblik zoo diepgrievend is,En toch 't gehate leven niet ontvliedt!Dat nu de dood het leven leven nogLaat heeten, schoon het niets dan aad'men is.(Lavinia kust Titus.)MARCUS. Arm kind, die kus brengt heul noch troost, zoominAls ijskoud water een verkilde slang.TITUS. O, wanneer neemt die schrikb're slaap een eind?MARCUS. O zoet bedrog, vaar heen; sterf, Andronicus.Dit is geen droom; zie uwer zonen hoofden,Uw dapp're hand hier, uw verminkte dochter,Uw andren zoon als balling, wien deze aanblikBleek, bloed'loos maakt; en zie uw broeder, mij,Hier als een steenen beeld, zoo koud en roerloos.O, thans zal ik uw klachten niet meer stremmen.Ruk uit uw zilv'ren haar; knaag de and're handVrij met uw tanden; en dit schriktooneelSluite ons voor goed de onzalige oogen toe!Kom, nu is 't razenstijd; wat zwijgt ge nu?TITUS. Ha, ha, ha!MARCUS. Wat lacht gij nu? dit past niet bij deze ure.TITUS. Ik heb geen tranen meer te storten over;En dan, die jammer is een vijand, dieMijn vochtige oogen overmeest'ren wil,Ze door een cijns van tranen blind wil maken;Hoe vond ik dan den weg naar 't hol der wraak?Ja, want mij is 't, als spraken die twee hoofden,En dreigden, dat ik nimmer zalig wordt,Eer al die gruw'len ruim vergolden zijn,Diep in den strot van hen, die ze begingen.Kom, laat mij zien, wat taak ik heb te doen.--Gij zwaar bezochten, schaart u om mij heen,Opdat ik mij tot ieder uwer keereEn aan mijn ziele zweer', uw leed te wreken.--Ik deed dien eed.--Kom, broeder, neem een hoofd;In deze hand wil ik het ander dragen.Ook gij, Lavinia, krijgt hier iets te doen,Draag gij mijn hand, lief kind, met uwe tanden.En gij, mijn jongen, spoed u uit mijn oog;Gij zijt een balling; dralen moet gij niet.IJl tot de Gothen, zamel daar een leger;Hebt gij mij lief,--ik denk, dat gij het doet,--Zoo kus me en ga, want deze zaak wil spoed.(Titus, Marcus en Lavinia af.)LUCIUS. Vaar, Andronicus, eed'le vader, wel,Rampzaligst man, die ooit in Rome leefde!Vaarwel, trotsch Rome; u laat, tot hij hier keert,Thans Lucius panden, dierb'rer dan zijn leven!Vaar gij, Lavinia, eed'le zuster, wel;O waart gij als gij vroeger zijt geweest!Doch thans leeft Lucius, leeft Lavinia niet,Dan in vergetelheid en naamloos wee.Zoo Lucius leeft, dan wreekt hij ras uw smaad;De trotsche Saturninus en zijn gade,Zij zullen door hem beed'len aan de poorten,Als eens Tarquinius en zijn koningin.Thans naar de Gothen; 'k zamel daar een macht,Die mij op Rome en Saturninus wreek'.(Lucius af.)TWEEDE TOONEEL.Een vertrek in Titus' huis. Een maal is aangericht. Titus,Marcus, Lavinia, en de jonge Lucius, een knaap, komen op.TITUS. Kom, zet u thans, doch eet alleen zooveel,Als ons voldoende kracht bewaren kanOm wraak te nemen voor ons bitter wee.Marcus, kruis niet in smart uw armen zoo;Uw nicht en ik, wij armen, missen handen,En kunnen ons tienvoudig leed niet klagenMet armgekruis. Deze arme rechterhandBleef mij alleen om op mijn borst te woeden;En als mijn hart, waanzinnig van ellend,Bonst in den hollen kerker van mijn vleesch,Dan sla ik zoo het neer.(Tot Lavinia.) Gij kort begrip van leed, die spreekt in teekens,Als uw arm hart zoo bonst met woeste slagen,Kunt, gij het, ach! ter stilling niet zoo slaan.Verwond het, kind, met zuchten, snik het doodOf vat een vlijmend mes met uwe tandenEn boor ter plaatse van uw hart een wond,Opdat der oogen gansche tranenstroomIn deze groeve vliete en, ingezogen,'t Arm klagend hart verdrinke in zilten vloed.MARCUS. Foei, broeder! leer haar niet zoo gewelddadigAan 't teeder leven de eigen hand te slaan.TITUS. Wat, deed het leed u reeds een suffer zijn?Geen mensch heeft recht om dol te zijn, dan ik.Hoe kan zij aan zichzelf de handen slaan?Wat rept gij weer van handen; vraagt gij niet?neas tweemaal zijn verhaal te doen,Hoe Troje brandde en hij rampzalig werd?O handel hiervan niet, spreek niet van handen,Want dan herdenken we immer ons gemis.Foei, foei! het is, of waanzin mij doet spreken,Alsof wij ons gemis vergeten konden,Zoo Marcus ons maar niet van handen sprak!--Komt, vangen we aan; en gij, lief kind, eet dit.--Hier is geen drinken. Marcus, hoor haar spreken,Ik kan de tolk zijn voor haar mart'laarsteekens.Zij zegt: zij drinkt geen andren drank dan tranen,Uit leed gebrouwen, op haar wang gemengd.Gij stomme klaagster, 'k wil uw taal verstaan.Mij zullen uw gebaren zoo vertrouwdAls bedelkluiz'naars hun gebeden zijn.Zoo gij slechts zucht, uw stompen heft ten hemelSlechts wenkt of knikt of knielt, een teeken geeft,Zal ik uit deze een alphabet mij vormen,Door stadige oef'ning weten wat gij meent.DE JONGE LUCIUS. Grootvader, staak uw bitt're jammerklachten,En troost mijn moei eer met een fraai verhaal.MARCUS. Ach, diepgeroerd betreurt de teed're knaapGrootvaders wee, nu hij zijn wanhoop ziet.TITUS. Stil, te?re spruit, gij zijt gemaakt uit tranen;En tranen smelten ras uw leven weg.--(Marcus stoot met zijn mes in den schotel.)Waar stoot gij heftig met uw mes naar, Marcus?MARCUS. Naar iets wat ik gedood heb,--naar een vlieg.TITUS. Foei, schaam u, moord'naar! mij doodt gij het hart.Mijn oogen zijn verzaad van 't zien van gruw'len;Een moord, op een onschuldige volbracht,Staat Titus' broeder slecht. Neen, ga van hier;Ik zie, wij passen voor elkander niet.MARCUS. Ach, Titus, 't was een vlieg slechts, die ik doodde.TITUS. Maar stel, zij had een vader en een moeder,Hoe lieten die de gouden wiekjes hangenEn gonsden in de lucht hun jammerklacht!Die arme schuldelooze vlieg!Zij kwam om ons een aardig lied te gonzen,Ons te verheugen; en nu doodt gij haar!MARCUS. Vergeef mij; 't was een zwart en leelijk dier,De Moor der keizerin schier; daarom doodde ik 't.TITUS. O, o, o!Vergeef dan mij, dat ik u heb gegispt,Want dan hebt gij een vrome daad gedaan.Geef mij uw mes, opdat ik haar bespot,Mijn geest misleid', dat dit de Moor geweest is,Die zelf hier kwam, om mij vergif te reiken.--(Hij stoot met het mes.)Hier, dit voor u, en dat voor Tamora!Ja, knaap!Zoo diep zijn wij nog niet gezonken, hoop ik,Dat wij geen vlieg meer kunnen dooden, dieHier komt, op een koolzwarten Moor gelijkend.MARCUS. Die arme man, zijn leed beheerscht hem zoo,Dat hij de schaduw voor het wezen neemt.TITUS. Komt, ruimt hier weg.--Lavinia, ga met mijIn uw vertrek; daar leze ik met u treur'geVerhalen van 't gebeurde in de' ouden tijd.--Kom, knaap, ga mede; uw oog is jong, en gijMoogt lezen, als het mijne neev'lig wordt.(Allen af.)VIERDE BEDRIJF.EERSTE TOONEEL.Rome. De tuin van Titus' huis.Titus en Marcus komen op, daarna de jonge Lucius, gevolgd doorLAVINIA.JONGE LUCIUS. Grootvader, help! mijn moei Lavinia volgtMij overal en waarom weet ik niet.--Oom Marcus, zie! o zie, hoe snel zij komt!--Ach, lieve moei, ik weet niet wat gij meent.MARCUS. Kom, Lucius, blijf! wees voor uw moei niet bang.TITUS. Zij heeft u, knaap, te lief, om u te deren.JONGE LUCIUS. Toen vader nog in Rome was, ja zeker.MARCUS. Wat wil Lavinia toch met die gebaren?TITUS. Ducht, Lucius, niets; zij heeft een doel hierme?.Zie, Lucius, zie, hoe zij op u gesteld is;Zij wil, dat ge ergens met haar medegaat.O knaap, Cornelia las niet vlijtigerHaar zonen voor, dan zij met u gedichtenEn Cicero's Orator heeft gelezen.MARCUS. Kunt gij niet gissen, wat zij van u wil?JONGE LUCIUS. Voorwaar, ik weet het niet en kan 't niet gissen,Tenzij een vlaag van waanzin haar beving;Want overmaat van smart,--dit zeide mijGrootvader,--kan een mensch waanzinnig maken;En 'k las ook wel, dat Hecuba van TrojeVan kommer dol werd, en dit bracht mij angst,Hoewel ik weet, oom, dat mijn eed'le moeiMij even lief heeft als mijn moeder ooit,En nimmer, dan in woede, zou doen schrikken.In de' angst wierp ik mijn boeken weg, en vlood,Recht dwaas misschien.--Vergeef mij, lieve moei;'k Beloof u, zoo oom Marcus met mij gaat,Ben ik geheel en gaarne tot uw dienst.MARCUS. Goed, Lucius, 'k wil wel.(Lavinia slaat de boeken om, die Lucius liet vallen.)TITUS. Hoe is 't, Lavinia?--Marcus, spreek, wat wil zij?Er moet een boek zijn, dat zij wenscht te zien.--Is 't een van deze, kind?--Doe ze open, knaap.--Maar gij zijt meer belezen, hebt meer oef'ning;Dus, doe een keus uit heel mijn boekerij,En leid uw kommer af, totdat de hemelDen gruwb'ren euveldader openbaart.--Welk boek?--Wat heft zij bij herhaling de armen op?MARCUS. Ik denk, zij meent, dat aan de wandaad meerd'renMe?plichtig waren;--ja zeker, meerd'ren waren 't;--Of wel, zij heft ze hemelwaarts om wraak.TITUS. Welk boek is 't, Lucius, dat zij daar zoo aanstoot?JONGE LUCIUS. Ovidius is 't, het boek Metamorphosen,Dat mij mijn moeder schonk.MARCUS.                Uit de andre zoekt zijDit moog'lijk uit, ter liefde van de doode.TITUS. Stil, zie, wat bladert zij er haastig in!Help haar!--Wat zoekt gij?--Moet ik 't lezen, kind?--Dit is 't verhaal van Philomela's jammer,Van Tereus' boos verraad en vrouweschennis;In schennis, vrees ik, wortelt uw ellend'.MARCUS. Zie, broeder, zie, hoe ze op die bladen tuurt!TITUS. Lavinia, heeft men u zoo overvallen,Geschonden en gekrenkt als Philomela,In 't onbarmhartig, groot en donker woud?--Zie, zie!--Ja, waar wij jaagden, was er zulk een plaats,--O hadden wij er nooit, er nooit gejaagd!--Geheel als die de dichter hier beschrijft,Voor moord en schennis door natuur geschapen.MARCUS. Hoe kan natuur zoo booze krochten scheppen,Zoo gruw'len niet voor goden streelend zijn?TITUS. Wijs aan, lief kind, want hier zijn niets dan vrienden,Meld, welk Romein die daad bedrijven dorst;Sloop Saturninus weg, zooals Tarquinius,Ter schennis van Lucretia, 't kamp verliet?MARCUS. Zit naast mij, lieve nicht, en gij ook, broeder.--Apollo, Pallas, Jupiter, Mercurius,Beziel mij, dat ik 't wanbedrijf ontdekk'!--Zie hier, mijn broeder;--zie, Lavinia, zie;De zandplek hier is vlak en effen; kunt gij,Zoo doe dit na.(Hij schrijft zijn naam in het zand met zijn stok, dien hij met denmond vasthoudt en met de voeten geleidt.)                 Zoo heb ik hier mijn naamGeschreven zonder een'ge hulp der handen.Gevloekt zij hij, die tot den vond ons dwong!--Schrijf gij nu, lieve nicht; onthul ons eind'lijk,Wat God ter wrake wis onthuld wil zien.De hemel leide uw pen tot duidelijk schrift,Opdat wij 't schelmstuk en de daders kennen.(Lavinia neemt den stok in haar mond, geleidt hem met haar stompen,en schrijft.)TITUS. O lees, mijn broeder, lees, wat zij daar schreef!"Stuprum--Chiron--Demetrius".MARCUS. Wat, wat!--de wulpsche zoons van TamoraBedrijvers van dit snood en bloedig doen?TITUS. Magni dominator poli,Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?MARCUS. O kalm, mijn vriend, blijf kalm, al weet ook ik,Dat hier op de aard genoeg geschreven staatOm 't zachtst gemoed tot oproer aan te prikk'len,En kind'ren luide kreten te doen slaken.Kniel neder, vriend, met mij; Lavinia, kniel;En knaap, kniel ook, gij hoop van Rome's Hector;En zweert met mij,--zooals met de' armen gadeEn vader der onteerde kuische vrouwEens na Lucretia's schennis Brutus zwoer,--Dat wij een dood'lijke, overlegde wraakOp deze snoode Gothen nemen zullen,Hun bloed zien,--of zelf sterven, laf, onteerd.TITUS. 't Waar' zeker, ja, wist gij te zeggen, hoe;--Pas op, als gij die berenwelpen jaagt;Want de oude ontwaakt, als zij uw naad'ring ruikt;Ze is eng verbonden met den leeuw en maaktHem spelend, liggend op den rug, in slaap;En als hij slaapt, dan doet zij wat zij wil.Laat af, gij zijt een jonge jager, Marcus;En kom, ik wil een koop'ren blad gaan halen,Met stalen stift die woorden er op griff'len,En 't zoo bewaren. Noorderstorm verwaaitDit zand ras, als de bladen der Sibylle,En waar is dan 't vermaan?--Knaap, wat zegt gij?JONGE LUCIUS. Ik zeg, dat, zoo ik man was, hunner moederSlaapkamer wis geen vrijplaats wezen zouVoor deze aan Rome's juk ontglipte schurken.MARCUS. Mijn jongen is hij! Knaap, uw vader heeftVoor zijn ondankbaar land aldus gekampt.JONGE LUCIUS. Nu, oom, zoo doe ik, blijf ik leven, ook.TITUS. Kom met mij in mijn wapenzaal, daar rust ikU, Lucius, kostlijk toe, want gij, mijn knaap,Moet fluks aan beide zoons der keizerinGeschenken brengen, die ik zenden wil.Kom! vlug! Niet waar, gij wilt die boodschap brengen?JONGE LUCIUS. Grootvader, ja, mijn dolk in hunne borst.TITUS. Neen, knaap, niet zoo; ik leer u anders doen.Lavinia, kom!--Marcus, let op mijn huis;Lucius en ik, wij gaan ten hove pralen;Wij willen 't, ja, en hulde brengt men ons.(Titus, Lavinia en de jonge Lucius af.)MARCUS. O Hemel! kunt ge een brave hooren jamm'ren,En geen erbarmen toonen met zijn lot?Marcus, let bij zijn waanzin goed op hem,Wiens hart meer wonden heeft van bitter leed,Dan zijn gebutste beuk'laar vijandsmerken;En toch zoo vroom, dat hij geen wraak wil nemen!--Neemt, heem'len, gij voor Andronicus wraak!(Marcus af.)TWEEDE TOONEEL.Aldaar. Een vertrek in het paleis.Van de eene zijde komen op: Aaron, Demetrius en Chiron; van deandere zijde de jonge Lucius en een Dienaar, met een bundel wapensen daarop geschreven verzen.CHIRON. Demetrius, daar is de zoon van Lucius;Hij komt een boodschap aan ons overbrengen.AARON. Een dolle boodschap van dien dollen oude!JONGE LUCIUS. Met allen mogelijken deemoed, heeren,Breng ik u Andronicus' heuschen groet:--(Ter zijde.) En bid, dat Rome's goden u verderven.DEMETRIUS. Dank, goede Lucius, wat hebt gij voor nieuws?JONGE LUCIUS (ter zijde). Het nieuws is, dat  gij beiden zijtontmaskerdAls schurken en verkrachters.--(Luid.) Het behage u:Grootvader zendt na rijp beraad door mijDe beste klingen uit zijn wapenzaalU hier, als hulde aan uw hoogeed'le jeugd,De hoop van Rome; dit toch moet ik zeggen,En doe dit thans, en bied u, eed'le heeren,Zijn gaven aan, opdat gij steeds, zoodraGij dit behoeft, voortreff'lijk zijt gewapend;'k Zeg u vaarwel, (Ter zijde.) als bloedig schurkenpaar.(De jonge Lucius en zijn Dienaar af.)DEMETRIUS. Wat zit daar om? een reep rapier, beschreven?Laat zien.	"Integer vit?, scelerisque purus,	Non eget Mauri jaculis, nec arcu".CHIRON. Een vers is 't uit Horatius, ik ken het;Ik las het in mijn spraakkunst, lang gele?n.AARON. Een vers is 't uit Horatius, ja juist.(Ter zijde). Wat zijn er toch voor ezels in de  wereld!Dit is geen scherts; de grijsaard heeft hun schuldOntdekt en zendt hun wapens nu, met regels,Die, zonder dat zij 't merken, diep verwonden;Doch waar' de schrand're keizerin nu w?l,Zij juichte 't plan van Andronicus toe;Doch laten wij haar onrust nu in rust.(Luid.) Was 't, jonge vrienden, niet een goed gesternte,Dat ons naar Rome voerde, als vreemden, ja,Als krijgsgevang'nen, en ons zoo verhoogde?Het deed mij goed, voor 't slot hier den tribuun,En in zijns broeders bijzijn, fier te trotsen.DEMETRIUS. Mij nog meer goed, dat zulk een machtig heerZoo laf ons vleit, ons zulke giften zendt.AARON. Nu, had hij, prins Demetrius, geen reden?Hebt gij zijn dochter niet recht lief behandeld?DEMETRIUS. O hadden wij van Rome een duizend schoonenIn zulk een val, om onzen lust te boeten!CHIRON. Een vrome, liefdevolle wensch voorwaar!AARON. Ware uwe moeder hier, zij sprak het Amen.CHIRON. Dan deed zij 't wis voor twintig duizend meer.DEMETRIUS. Kom, gaan wij, bidden wij tot alle goden,Dat ze onze moeder bijstaan in haar nood.AARON (ter zijde). Roept duivels aan; de goden haten ons.(Trompetgeschal.)DEMETRIUS. Wat blazen de trompetten daar des keizers?CHIRON. Waarschijnlijk heeft de keizer thans een zoon.DEMETRIUS. Stil, wie komt daar?(Een Voedster komt op met een Moorenkind.)VOEDSTER. Gegroet, gij prinsen! 'k bid u, mij te zeggen,Waar Aaron is, de Moor, doch ras!AARON. Komaan, wat is 't, wat roept gij moord en brand?Aaron is hier; wat wilt gij nu van Aaron?VOEDSTER. Ach, Aaronlief! verloren zijn wij allen!Help ons, of wee op wee dale op uw hoofd!AARON. Welnu, wat mauwt en schreeuwt gij zoo? wat houdt gijDaar zoo omhuld, verborgen in uw armen?VOEDSTER. Wat ik voor 's hemels oogen liefst verborg;De schande der vorstin, de smaad van Rome.--Zij is verlost, mijn heeren, ze is verlost.AARON. Van wat?VOEDSTER. Zij kwam in 't kinderbed, bedoel ik.AARON. God geev' haar zoete rust! Wat zond Hij haar?VOEDSTER. Een duivel.AARON.		      Nu, dan is zij 's duivels mo?r; Een vroolijkwicht!VOEDSTER. Een vreugd'loos, aak'lig, zwart en droevig wicht.Hier is het kind, zoo leelijk als een padTe midden van de blanken van ons land;De moeder zendt het u, uw beeld en zegel,En wil, dat gij het met uw dolkspits doopt.AARON. Foei, slet! is zwart een zoo gehate kleur?--Zoet bekje', een lieflijk bloempje zijt gij, ja.DEMETRIUS. Schurk, wat hebt gij gedaan?AARON. Wat gij niet ongedaan maakt.CHIRON. Smaad deedt gij onze moeder aan.AARON. Vreugd deed ik uwe moeder aan.DEMETRIUS. En daardoor, helsche hond, deedt gij haar smaad aan.Wee 't booze lot! vervloekt haar zwarte keus!Vervloekt de spruit van zulk een boozen duivel!CHIRON. 't Wicht zal niet leven.AARON.				 Sterven zal het niet.VOEDSTER. 't Moet sterven, Aaron; zoo beveelt de moeder.AARON. Wat! moet het, voedster? dan zij ik 't alleen,Die beulsplicht oefen aan mijn vleesch en bloed.DEMETRIUS. Ik rijg de donderpad aan mijn rapier;Hier, voedster, geef; mijn zwaard maakt fluks het af.AARON. Eer tornt dit zwaard uw ingewanden op.(Hij neemt aan de Voedster het kind af en trekt zijn zwaard.)Stil, moordgeboefte, wilt ge uw broeder dooden?Nu, bij des hemels kaarsen, die zoo helderLicht gaven bij 't verwekken van dit jongsken,--Wie hem, mijn oudsten zoon en erfgenaam,Aanroert, sterft op mijn scherpe degenspits.Ik zeg u, knapen, niet Enceladus,Met heel zijn felle Typhonsbroedsel-bende,Noch groote Alcides, noch de god des krijgs,Rukt uit zijns vaders handen hem als prooi.Wat, wat! gij roodgetinte, laffe knapen,Gij witte wanden, bierhuisuithangteekens!Koolzwart is beter dan elke and're kleur,Omdat het weigert and're kleur te dragen;Want al het water van de zee kan nimmerDen zwarten voet des zwaans in wit verand'ren,Al wascht hij uur op uur dien in den stroom.Zeg aan de keizerin, 'k ben mans genoegOm 't mijne te behoeden; dit gedoog' zij.DEMETRIUS. Verraadt gij zoo uw eed'le meesteres?AARON. Zij is mijn meesteresse, dit ikzelf;De kracht is 't en de beelt'nis mijner jeugd;Dit schat ik hooger dan de gansche wereld;Kwam ook de wereld in verzet, dit hoede ik,Of veler bloed in Rome dampt er voor.DEMETRIUS. Dit werpt op onze moeder eeuw'gen smaad.CHIRON. Haar booze misstap maakt haar Rome's afschuw.VOEDSTER. In woede doemt de keizer haar ter dood.CHIRON. Ik bloos, wanneer ik aan haar schande denk.AARON. Nu ja, dit is het voorrecht uwer schoonheid;'t Is een verraderskleur, die,--foei!--door blozenDes harten roersels, ieder plan onthult;Dit is een jonge knaap van ander uitzicht;Zie, hoe de zwarte schelm zijn vader toelacht,Als was zijn zeggen: "Vader, ik ben de uwe."Hij is uw broeder, prinsen; blijkbaar voeddeHem 't eigen bloed, dat u het leven schonk;En uit dien schoot, die u in hechtnis hield,Werd hij bevrijd en aan het licht gebracht;Uw broeder is hij van den zeek'ren kant,Ofschoon zijn aangezicht mijn stempel draag'.VOEDSTER. Aaron, wat meld ik aan de keizerin?DEMETRIUS. Schaf, Aaron, raad, wat er gedaan moet worden;Wij geven allen aan uw raad gehoor;Beveilig 't wicht, als wij slechts veilig zijn.AARON. Nu, zetten wij ons dan, om raad te plegen.Mijn zoon en ik slaan nauwgezet u ga;Blijf daar, en spreek naar lust van veiligheid.(Zij gaan zitten.)DEMETRIUS. Hoevele vrouwen zagen dit zijn kind?AARON. Ja, goed, mijn prinsen; zoo wij ons verbinden,Ben ik een lam; maar--poog den Moor te trotsen,En Aaron stormt, meer dan de woedende ever,Dan de leeuwin der bergen, de oceaan.--Maar spreek, hoe velen hebben 't kind gezien?VOEDSTER. Cornelia slechts, de vroedvrouw, en ikzelf,En ook de keizerin, maar niemand meer.AARON. De keizerin, de vroedvrouw en gijzelf;Twee zwijgen wel, wanneer de derde ontbreekt.Ga naar de keizerin; ziehier uw boodschap;(Hij doorsteekt de Voedster.)Qu?k, qu?k!--zoo schreeuwt een big, voor 't spit gekeeld.DEMETRIUS. Wat wilt gij, Aaron? waarom deedt gij dit?AARON. Wel man, voorzichtigheid gebood die daad.Wat! zou zij leven, deze schuld verraden?Dat praatziek, dat langtongig wijf? Neen, neen!En nu zult gij geheel mijn plan vernemen.Hier dicht bij woont mijn landsman Muliteus,Wiens vrouw de voor'ge nacht bevallen is;Het kind gelijkt op haar, is blank als gij;Gaat, praat met haar en geeft de moeder goud;Vertelt dat paar 't beloop der gansche zaak,En hoe hierdoor hun kind verhoogd zal wordenEn als des keizers erfgenaam erkend,En voor dit wicht van mij in plaats gesteld,Om dezen storm ten hove te bezweren;Dat wiege dan de keizer als zijn zoon.Hoort nog, gij ziet, ik gaf haar artsenij.(Op de Voedster wijzende.)En nu moet gij voor de begraaf'nis zorgen;'t Veld is nabij en gij zijt forsche knapen.Is dit gedaan, zorg dan niet lang te dralen,Maar zend terstond de vroedvrouw naar mij toe.Is, als de min, de vroedvrouw uit den weg,Dan mogen vrouwen praten wat zij willen.CHIRON. 'k Zie, Aaron, aan de lucht zelfs niet vertrouwt gijGeheimen toe.DEMETRIUS.   Om deze zorg voor haarZijn Tamora en wij u zeer verplicht.(Demetrius en Chiron af, het lijk der Voedster medesleepend.)AARON. Nu naar de Gothen met een zwaluwvlucht,Om daar den schat, dien ik hier houd, te bergen,En stil de vrienden der vorstin te groeten.--Kom hier, diklippig wicht, ik breng u weg;Want gij doet al die vonden ons bedenken.Van bezi?n en van wortels zult gij leven,Van melk en wrongel, zuigen van een geitEn wonen in een grot; ik voed u opTot krijgsman en gebieder van een leger.(Aaron af, met het Kind.)DERDE TOONEEL.Aldaar. Een openbaar plein.Titus komt op, pijlen dragend met brieven aan de spitsen; verderMarcus en zijn zoon Publius, de jonge Lucius en andere Edellieden,met bogen.TITUS. Kom, Marcus, kom.--Hier, neven, komt hierheen.Nu, knaap, laat thans eens kijken, hoe gij schiet;Trek stevig aan, dan treft de pijl haar doel.Terras Astraea reliquit:Ja, Marcus, denk: ze is weg, zij is gevloden.Gij, heeren, neemt uw werktuig. Neven, gij,Doorzoekt den oceaan en werpt uw netten,Of gij in zee haar vangt, hoewel--daar isNiet meer gerechtigheid dan op het land.--Neen, Publius en Sempronius, tijgt aan 't werk;Gij moet gaan zoeken met houweel en spade,En dringen door der aarde middelpunt;En komt gij zoo in Pluto's rijk, wilt dan,Ik bid u, hem dit smeekschrift overreiken;Zeg, dat het hem om recht en bijstand smeektEn van den ouden Andronicus komt,Wien leed diep schokt in dit ondankbaar Rome.--O Rome!--Ach, Rome, ik maakte u diep rampzalig;Ja toen, toen ik de stemmen wierf van 't volkVoor hem, die zulk een woestling is voor mij.--Gaat, spoedt u, doet met zorg uw plicht, en laatGeen krijgsschip ondoorzocht; misschien heeft haarDe booze keizer weggescheept, en, neven,Dan kunnen we om gerechtigheid gaan fluiten.MARCUS. O Publius, is dit niet overtreurig,Uw eed'len oom zoo zinneloos te zien?PUBLIUS. En daarom, heer, is 't onze dure plicht,Hem dag en nacht zorgvuldig g? te slaanEn staag zijn luim, zooveel het kan, te vieren,Tot ons de tijd een heilzaam middel wijst.MARCUS. Ach neven, voor zijn kommer is geen heeling.IJlt tot de Gothen, en een krijg ter wrakeDoe Rome voor den snooden ondank boeten,En straff' den valschen Saturninus streng.TITUS. Publius, hoe is 't? en heeren, spreekt, hoe is 't?Spreekt, hebt gij haar gevonden?PUBLIUS. Neen, oom, doch Pluto laat u zeggen, datDe hel de Wraak u toezendt, als gij 't wilt,Maar de Gerechtigheid zooveel te doen heeft,Hetzij bij Jupiter omhoog, 't zij elders,Dat gij op haar een poosje wachten moet.TITUS. Hij krenkt mij, door met uitstel mij te paaien.'k Wil duiken in den hellepoel omlaag;'k Haal bij de hielen haar uit de' Acheron.--Marcus, slechts struiken zijn wij, geene ceders,Geen forsche mannen van Cyclopenstal;Maar, Marcus, van metaal, staal door en door;Toch door meer leed dan torsbaar is, gebogen;Daar aard noch hel Gerechtigheid nu huisvest,Zoo smeeken wij ten hemel, dat de godenHaar nederzenden om ons wee te wreken.Aan 't werk nu, komt! Gij, Marcus, goede schutter,(Hij geeft hun de pijlen.)  Ad Jovem, die voor u;--hier ad Apollinem;--Ad Martem, die voor mij;--Hier, knaap, aan Pallas;--aan Mercurius deze;Deze aan Saturnus, vriend,--niet Saturninus,Want dat waar' zeker schieten in den wind.--Vlug, knaap;--gij Marcus, schiet, zoodra ik 't zeg.  Nu, op mijn woord, ik schreef niet te vergeefs.En liet geen enk'len god onaangeroepen.MARCUS. Schiet, vrienden, al uw pijlen in het hof;Dat zij den keizer krenken in zijn trots.TITUS. Nu, vrienden, schiet! (Zij schieten.) O Lucius, goed geraakt!Knaap, in den schoot der Virgo; dit geldt Pallas.MARCUS. Ik mik een mijl nu hooger dan de maan;Uw brief is nu alreeds bij Jupiter.TITUS. O Publius, zie, wat hebt gij nu gedaan?Gij schoot daar een van Taurus' horens af.MARCUS. Zoo was de grap, heer: toen daar Publius schoot,Stiet de vergramde Stier den ram zoo fel,Dat 's Rams twee horens vielen in het hof.Daar vond ze,--wie? de schurk der keizerin;Zij lachte en zeide tot den Moor, dat hijDie aan zijn heer moest geven als geschenk.TITUS. Zoo gaat het goed! God schenk' zijn hoogheid vreugd!(Een Boer komt op; hij draagt een mand met twee duiven.)Nieuws! uit den hemel! Marcus, zie, een bode!--Zoo, knaap, wat meldt gij? brengt gij brieven me??Krijg ik mijn recht? Nu, wat zegt Jupiter?BOER. Wie? mijn buurman, de galgenmaker?hij zegt, dat hij het dwarshout er afgenomenheeft, want de man wordt niet voor de volgendeweek gehangen.TITUS. Maar wat zegt Jupiter? vraag ik nog eens.BOER. Ach, heer, ik ken dien Jupiter niet;ik heb nooit van mijn leven met hem gedronken.TITUS. Wat, kerel, komt gij hier niet met een boodschap?BOER. Ja, met mijn duiven, heer; met anders niets.TITUS. Wat, komt gij dan niet van den hemel?BOER. Van den hemel, heer? ach, daar benik nooit geweest. God beware, dat ik het gewaagdzou hebben, in mijn jonge jaren naarden hemel te dringen. Neen, ik ga met mijnduiven naar den Tribunal plebs, om een twistbij te leggen tusschen mijn oom en een van's keizers dienaars.MARCUS. Wel, broeder, dit komt zoo goed,als het kan, voor het indienen van uw geschrift,laat hem de duiven uit uw naam aan den keizer brengen.TITUS. Zeg mij, kunt gij een geschrift meteenige gratie aan den keizer overreiken?BOER. Neen, zeker niet, heer, want ik hebvan mijn leven nog geen gratie noodig gehad.TITUS. Nu knaap, treed nader. Maak maar geen bezwaar,En geef gerust uw duiven aan den keizer;Door mij zult gij van hem uw recht verkrijgen.Hier hebt ge intusschen voor uw moeite geld.--Geef pen en inkt hier.--Knaap, hoe is 't? Kunt gijMet gratie nu een smeekschrift overreiken?BOER. Ja, heer.TITUS. Dan hebt gij hier een smeekschrift vooru. En als gij bij hem komt, moet gij beginnenmet voor hem te knielen, dan zijn voet kussen,dan uw duiven overreiken, en dan op uw loonwachten. Ik zal in de buurt zijn, man; zorg,dat gij het er goed afbrengt.BOER. Daar sta ik voor in, heer, laat mij maar begaan.TITUS. Knaap, hebt ge een mes? Kom, laat het mij eens zien.--Hier, Marcus, vouw 't verzoekschrift er om heen;Gij schreeft het als een need'rig smeekeling;--En klop, als gij 't den keizer hebt gegeven,Bij mij eens aan, en meld mij, wat hij zegt.BOER. Nu, God zij met u, heer; ik zal het doen.TITUS. Kom, Marcus, laat ons gaan.--Kom, Publius, volg mij.(Allen af.)VIERDE TOONEEL.Aldaar. Voor het Paleis.Saturninus, Tamora, Demetrius, Chiron, Edellieden en Anderen komenop, Saturninus met de pijlen in de hand, door Titus afgeschoten.SATURNINUS. Hoe vindt gij zulk een krenking? wie zag ooitIn Rome een keizer zoo met overmoedEn trots bejegend en om onpartijdigRechtoef'nen op zoo grove wijs gehoond?Gij, heeren, weet, gelijk de groote goden,Dat,--wat ook vredestoorders mogen blazenIn 't oor des volks,--er met de drieste zoonsVan de' ouden Andronicus niets geschiedde,Dan volgens wet en recht. En schoon nu ookZijn kommer zijn verstand hebbe overweldigd,Is 't wel te dulden, dat zijn bitterheid,Zijn wrok, zijn dolle waan ons zoo bedreigen?Hij schrijft den hemel thans, dat die hem wreke;Ziet, dit aan Jupiter, dit aan Mercurius,Dit aan Apollo, dit aan de' oorlogsgod;Fraai nieuws, om Rome's straten rond te fladd'ren!Wat noemt gij dit, dan den senaat belast'ren,Uitschreeuwen, dat wij onrechtvaardig zijn?Een fraaie grap, vindt gij het ook niet, heeren?Alsof men zeide, er is geen recht in Rome.Doch zijn geveinsde waanzin zal voorwaar,Leef ik, geen schuts hem zijn bij zulk een hoon.Hij met zijn stam zal weten, dat het rechtBij Saturninus leeft; en, mocht het slapen,Hij zal 't zoo wekken, dat het, fel vergramd,Den fiersten samenzweerder vellen zal.TAMORA. Genadig vorst, geliefde Saturninus,Mijns levens heer, gebieder van mijn geest,Wees kalm, verdraag des ouden Titus' zonden,Gevolg der droef'nis om zijn dapp're zoons,Die hem in 't merg drong en zijn hart doorboorde;Tracht liever hem zijn jammer te verzachten,Dan dat gij hoog of laag voor dezen hoonVervolgt en straft.--(Ter zijde.) Zie, dit past Tamora,Zich sluw bij iedereen schoon voor te doen;Maar Titus, 'k heb in 't leven u geraaktEn tapte uws harten bloed.--Is Aaron wijs,Dan zijn wij veilig, ank'ren in de haven.--(De Boer komt op.)Wel, goede vriend, verlangt gij iets van ons?BOER. Ja, dat doe ik, zoo uwe edelheid keizerlijk is.TAMORA. Ik ben de keizerin, daar zit de keizer.BOER. Hij is het.--God en Sint Stevenmogen u een goeden avond geven. Ik heb uhier een brief en een koppel duiven gebracht.(Saturninus leest den brief.)SATURNINUS. Gaat, neemt hem, hangt hem op, dit zij zijn loon.BOER. Hoeveel geld krijg ik wel?TAMORA. Loop, knaap; gij moet gehangen worden.BOER. Gehangen! Bij onze lieve Vrouw, danheb ik een hals mooi aan zijn end gebracht!(Hij wordt door een Wacht weggevoerd.)SATURNINUS. 't Is schand'lijk, onverdraag'lijk, al die hoon!Zou ik die monsterschurkerij verdragen?Ik weet, aan wien ik dit te danken heb.Onduldbaar is 't!--Alsof zijn schelmsche zoons,Door 't recht gevonnisd om den moord mijns broeders,Door mij geslacht zijn, tegen wet en recht!--Gaat, sleept den booswicht bij de haren hier;Geen roem noch leeftijd geev' hem eenig voorrechtVoor dezen trotschen hoon doe ik u slachten;Sluw-dolle schurk, gij hielpt mij aan de kroon,Maar hopend over Rome en mij te heerschen.(?milius komt op.)Wat nieuws brengt gij, ?milius??MILIUS. Te wapen, heer! Nooit drong de nood zoozeer.De Gothen zijn vereend, en met een machtVan koene krijgers, fel belust op buit,Naar Rome op marsch, nabij reeds; aan hun hoofdStaat Lucius, zoon van de' ouden Andronicus;Hij dreigt, in zijne wraak niet minder verTe willen gaan dan eens Coriolanus.SATURNINUS. De dapp're Lucius veldheer van de Gothen?Die tijding knakt mij; als bevroren bloemen,Of gras, door storm geslagen, buig ik 't hoofd.Ja, thans begint mijn kwade tijd te naad'ren.Hij is het, dien het volk zoozeer bemint;Meermalen heb ik, als ik onbekendDe stad doorkruiste, zelf hen hooren zeggen,Dat Lucius' ballingschap een onrecht was,En dat zij Lucius zich als keizer wenschten.TAMORA. Waarom beangst? is onze stad niet sterk?SATURNINUS. Ja, maar de burgers achten Lucius hoog,En vallen mij wis af, om h?m te helpen.TAMORA. Wees keizer, heer, in denken als in naam.Taant ooit de zon, wijl muggen in haar dansen?Zie, de aad'laar laat de kleine vogels zingen,En wat zij er mee meenen, deert hem niet;Hij weet, dat reeds de schaduw van zijn wieken,Zoodra hij 't wil, hun zang verstommen doet;Dit doet ook gij het wuft Romeinsche volk.Wees dus vol moed; want weet, mijn keizer: ikBetoover u den ouden AndronicusMet woorden, zoeter, doch gevaarlijker,Dan aas voor visschen, klaver is voor schapen,Schoon gene door den hoek verwond en dezeEen rotkwaal krijgen van het zoete vo?r.SATURNINUS. Doch nimmer smeekt hij tot zijn zoon voor ons.TAMORA. Hij doet het wel, als Tamora 't hem smeekt;Zijn oud oor kan ik vleiend zoo met guldenBeloften vullen, dat, ware ook zijn hartSchier onbestormbaar en zijn oor stokdoof,Mijn tong zijn oor en hart zou overmeest'ren.--(Tot ?milius). Ga gij vooruit en wees onze afgezant;Zeg, dat de keizer met den dapp'ren LuciusEen onderhoud verlangt, en wensch als plaatsHet huis zijns vaders, de' ouden Andronicus.SATURNINUS. ?milius, breng die boodschap waardig over;Dringt hij ter veiligheid op gijz'laars aan,Dan zegg' hijzelf, welk onderpand hij wenscht.?MILIUS. Ik zal met alle zorg uw last volbrengen.(?milius af.)TAMORA. Nu spoed ik mij naar de' ouden Andronicus,En tracht met al mijn kunst hem zoo te stemmen,Dat hij van 't Gothenleger Lucius scheide.En nu, mijn keizer, wees weer welgemoed;Begraaf in mijne listen al uw angsten.SATURNINUS. Zoo ga met goed gevolg en spreek hem toe.(Allen af.)VIJFDE BEDRIJF.EERSTE TOONEEL.Een vlakte nabij Rome.Lucius, Bevelhebbers en Krijgers der Gothen, met trommen en vaandels,komen op.LUCIUS. Beproefde krijgers en getrouwe vrienden,Van 't groote Rome ontving ik brieven, dieMij melden, hoe zij daar hun keizer hatenEn vol verlangen zijn om ons te zien.Weest daarom, heeren, als uw titels 't zeggen,Grootmachtig, en geen krenking verder duldend;En heeft u Rome schade toegevoegd,Die moge 't nu drievoudig u vergoeden.EERSTE GOTH. Gij dapp're spruit des grooten Andronicus,Wiens naam, eens onze schrik, nu troost ons is,Wiens groote diensten en roemruchte daden't Ondankbaar Rome thans met hoon vergeldt,Vertrouw op ons; wij volgen waar ge ons leidt,Als angelbij?n, die op 't heetst des zomersDe koningin naar bloemenbeemden voert;En wreek u op de vloekb're Tamora.ALLE GOTHEN. Wat hij zegt, allen zeggen wij 't met hem.LUCIUS. Ik dank hem need'rig en ik dank u allen.--Doch wie is 't, dien een kloeke Goth daar brengt?(Een Goth komt op, met Aaron, die zijn Kind op de armen draagt.)TWEEDE GOTH. Doorluchte Lucius, ik zwierf af van 't leger,Om een vervallen klooster te bezien;En toen ik op het halfvernield gebouwMijn oog aandachtig vestte, hoorde ik eensklapsDaar onder 't muurwerk 't schreeuwen van een kind.'k Ging af op het geluid, maar hoorde draHet schreeuwend wicht bekijven met de woorden:"Stil, donk're schelm, half mij en half uw moeder,Verried niet fluks uw kleur, wiens welp gij zijt,Had u natuur begaafd met moeders uitzicht,Dan, schurk, hadt gij een keizer kunnen worden;Maar bij spierwitte kleur van stier en koe,Wordt nooit een kalf, dat koolzwart is, gefokt.Stil, deugniet, stil!"--zoo keef hij op het wicht,--Ik moet u brengen naar een trouwen Goth,Die, kent hij u als 't kind der keizerin,U om uw moeders wille lief zal hebben."Ik trok mijn zwaard en sprong fluks op hem toe,Verraste hem en breng hem thans tot u,Opdat gij met hem doet naar welgevallen.LUCIUS. O wakk're Goth, dit is die bare duivel,Die Andronicus' dapp're hand hem stal,De parel, die de keizerin bekoorde,D?t van zijn vuige min de lage vrucht.--Waarheen, witoogig monster, gingt gij 't brengen,Dien jeugdige' afdruk van uw duivelstronie?Kunt gij niet spreken? doof dus? wat! geen woord?Een strik, mijn krijgers! hangt hem! daar! gezwind!En aan zijn zij dat zwarte basterdkind!AARON. Roer 't kind niet aan; het is van vorstlijk bloed.LUCIUS. 't Lijkt op zijn vader en wordt nimmer goed.Hangt eerst het kind; hij moog' het spart'len zien;'t Verhoogt de smarten zijner ziel misschien.Vlug, brengt een ladder!(Een ladder wordt gebracht en Aaron gedwongen die te bestijgen.)AARON.		      Lucius, spaar het kind!En zend het aan de keizerin van mij.Als gij dit doet, meld ik u wond're zaken,Waarvan het weten u veel voordeel brengt;Wilt gij dit niet, 'k laat alles mij gevallen,En spreek niets meer; maar wraak verdelge u allen!LUCIUS. Zoo spreek dan; en behaagt mij wat gij zegt,Dan blijft uw kind gespaard, ja, 'k voed het op.AARON. Zoo 't u behaagt! neen, Lucius, wees verzekerd,Het zal uw ziele grieven, wat gij hoort;Ik moet van doodslag spreken, moord en schennis,Van daden, zwart gelijk de nacht, afschuw'lijk,Van samenspanning, schurkerij, verraad,Voor 't hooren wreed, toch deerniswaard volvoerd;Wat alles in mijn dood begraven wordt,Tenzij, naar uwen eed, mijn kind blijft leven.LUCIUS. Spreek, wat gij weet; ik zeg, uw kind blijft leven.AARON. Neen, zweer het eerst; terstond begin ik dan.LUCIUS. Waarbij? voor u, die aan geen god gelooft?Is dit zoo, kunt gij dan een eed gelooven?AARON. Stel, ik doe 't niet;--en zeker, 'k doe het niet,--Doch wijl ik weet, dat gij geloovig zijt,In u een ding hebt, dat geweten heet,Met twintig papenfratsen en gebruiken,Die ik u nauwgezet volbrengen zag,Daarom eisch ik uw eed;--(Ter zijde.) dewijl ik weet,Dat menig nar zijn zotskolf voor een god acht,En de eeden houdt, gezworen aan dien god,Eisch ik zijn eed;--(Overluid.) daarom zult gij belovenBij uwen god,--wat god het dan ook zij,--Dien gij aanbidt en diep vereert, dat gijMijn knaap zult sparen, voeden, groot zult brengen,Zoo niet, weet dan, dat ik u niets ontdek.LUCIUS. Ik zweer u bij mijn god, dat ik dit doe.AARON. Weet eerst, ik won hem bij de keizerin.LUCIUS. O onverzaad'lijk geil, wellustig wijf!AARON. O Lucius, stil! dit was een liefdedaad,Bij wat gij aanstonds van mij hooren zult.Haar twee zoons waren Bassianus' moord'naars;Zij kapten uwer zuster tong en handen,Zij schonden haar en tooiden haar zoo op.LUCIUS. Onzaal'ge schurk! noemt gij dat opgetooid?AARON. 't Was wasschen, kappen, tooien dus, en 't wasEen tooipret voor de twee, die 't stuk volvoerden.LUCIUS. Beestachtig ruwe schurken, als gijzelf!AARON. Nu ja, ik was de meester, die hen leerde.Hun geilheid was een gave van hun moeder,Zoo zeker, als de hoogste kaart in 't spel;Hun lust in bloed, ja, leerden zij van mij,Zoo zeker als een bloedhond weet te pakken.Nu, geev' mijn doen getuig'nis van mijn waarde.Ik lokte uw broeders naar 't bedrieglijk hol,Waarin het lijk van Bassianus lag;Ik schreef den brief, dien toen uw vader vond;Verborg, met Tamora en haar twee zoonsVerbonden, 't goud, dat in den brief vermeld was.Ja, was er iets, dat gij bejamm'ren moet,Waar ik de hand niet in had, u tot onheil?'k Heb door bedrog uws vaders hand erlangd,En toen ik die eens had, ging ik ter zij,En kreeg een lachbui, dat mij 't hart schier berstte.Ik tuurde door een muurspleet, toen hij voorZijn hand de hoofden kreeg van zijn twee zoons;Ik zag zijn smart en moest zoo hartlijk lachen,Dat m?jn oog even nat was als het zijn;En toen ik Tamora de grap beschreef,Viel zij van louter pret bijna in zwijm,En gaf mij voor 't verhaal wel twintig kussen.EERSTE GOTH. Kunt gij dit alles zeggen zonder blozen?AARON. Ja, als een zwarte hond, naar 't spreekwoord zegt.LUCIUS. En doen die gruweldaden u geen leed?AARON. Ja, dat ik er niet duizend meer bedreef.Zelfs nu vloek ik den dag,--maar toch ik meen,Niet vele zijn er door mijn vloek te treffen,--Waarop ik geen opmerk'lijk kwaad bedreef;Geen man versloeg of niet zijn dood beraamde;Geen maagd verkrachtte of 't plan er niet toe smeedde;Geen eerlijk man betichtte en meineed zwoer;Geen haat ten doode bij twee vrienden zaaide;Het vee van armen niet den nek liet breken,In schuur en schelf bij nacht den brand niet stak,En de' eig'naars toeriep: "Bluscht hem met uw tranen!"Vaak groef ik dooden uit hunne graven op,En zette ze aan de deuren van hun vriendenRechtop, juist als het leed schier was vergeten,En sneed, gelijk in boomschors, in hun huidDan in Romeinsche letters met mijn dolk:"Uw droef'nis sterve niet, al ben ik dood."O meer dan duizend gruweldaden deed ik,Zoo lucht van hart als iemand vliegen doodt;En niets doet mij zoo innig leed, dan datIk niet er nog tien duizend meer kan doen.LUCIUS. Omlaag weer met dien duivel, want hem wachtEen erger dood; het hangen is te zacht.AARON. 'k Wilde, als er duivels zijn, een duivel wezen,En leven, branden in 't onbluschlijk vuur,Had ik slechts uw gezelschap in de helOm u te mart'len met mijn bitt're tong.LUCIUS. Stopt hem den mond en laat hem niet meer spreken.(Een Goth komt op.)GOTH. Daar is een afgezant uit Rome, heer;Hij wenscht bij u te worden toegelaten.LUCIUS. Hij trede voor ons.(?milius komt op.)Welkom, ?milius, wat is 't nieuws uit Rome??MILIUS. U, Lucius, en u, oversten der Gothen,Groet de Romeinsche keizer door mijn mond;Hij, hoorend, dat gij in de wapens staat,Vraagt in uws vaders huis een mondgesprek;En zoo gij vordert, dat hij gijz'laars stelt,Dan worden zij terstond u toegezonden.EERSTE GOTH. Wat zegt ons legerhoofd?LUCIUS. ?milius, zoo de keizer aan mijn vaderEn mijn oom Marcus goede borgen zendt,Dan komen wij.--Trekt voort!(Allen af.)TWEEDE TOONEEL.Rome. Het voorplein van Titus' huis.Tamora, Demetrius en Chiron komen op, vermomd.TAMORA. Aldus, in deze vreemde, somb're dracht,Bezoek ik Andronicus nu, en zeg,Dat ik de Wraak ben, uit de hel gezonden,Om voor zijn jammer met hem recht te doen.Klopt aan zijn boekvertrek; daar toeft hij, zegt men,En broedt op plannen, vreemd en woest, van wraak;Zegt hem, de Wraak kwam hier, om sa?m met hemVerderf op al zijn haters uit te storten.(Zij kloppen aan.)(Titus komt op, boven.)TITUS. Wie stoort mij in mijn overdenking? Is ditEen kunstgreep om mijn deur mij te doen oop'nen,Opdat mijn wraakbesluiten zoo vervliegen,En al mijn peinzen zonder werking blijv'?Gij dwaalt, want wat ik voorgenomen heb,--Zie hier,--ik schreef het neer met bloedig schrift;En wat ik schreef, zal worden uitgevoerd.TAMORA. Titus, om u te spreken kwam ik hier.TITUS. Neen, neen, geen woord! hoe kan ik sierlijk spreken,Nu ik een hand voor mijn gebaren mis?Gij zijt te zeer in 't voordeel, dus niets meer.TAMORA. Zoo gij mij kendet, zoudt gij met mij spreken.TITUS. Ik ben niet dol; ik ken u al te goed;Dit tuig' deze arme stomp, dit roode schrift,De voren hier, die leed en zorg mij groeven,Dit tuig' de moede dag, de lange nacht,En al mijn jammer, dat ik goed u kenAls Tamora, de trotsche keizerin.Is 't om mijn and're hand, dat gij hier komt?TAMORA. Neen, weet, bedroefde, Tamora ben 'k niet;Zij is uw vijandin, ik uw vriendin.Ik ben de Wraak, die, uit de hel gezonden,Den gier, die aan uw harte knaagt, zal stillen,Uw haters straffen zal met strenge wraak.Kom af, en heet mij welkom aan het daglicht;Pleeg over moord en doodslag met mij raad.Geen schuilplaats is er en geen diepe grot,Geen tastbaar duister en geen dompig dal,Waar vloek'bre moord of vrouwenkracht, vol angst,Zich bergen kunnen, of ik vind hen daar;En galm mijn schrikb'ren naam hun in het oor:Wraak, die den boozen zondaar sidd'ren doet.TITUS. Zijt gij de Wraak? en hier tot mij gezondenTer martelstraf voor wie mijn vijand is?TAMORA. Ik ben het; kom dus af en heet mij welkom.TITUS. Doe mij een dienst dan, eer ik tot u kom.'k Zie Moord en Vrouwenkracht daar aan uw zijde;Zoo toon mij nu, dat gij de Wrake zijt:Doorsteek hen of verplet hen met de raad'renUws wagens, en ik kom en word uw waag'naar,En jaag met u onstuimig door 't heelal.Schaf u twee schoone rossen aan, gitzwart,Om uw wraakgier'gen wagen vaart te gevenEn moord'naars in hun holen op te sporen;Is dan uw wagen van hun hoofden vol,Dan stijg ik af en draaf ter zij van 't wiel,Gelijk een lage knecht, den ganschen dag,Van Hyperions opkomst in het oosten,Tot hij verzinkt, verdwenen is in zee;En dag op dag doe ik dit zware werk,Verdelgt gij hen daar, Vrouwenkracht en Moord.TAMORA. Zij zijn mijn dienaars, volgen mij alom.TITUS. Uw dienaars? zij? en hoe is dan hun naam?TAMORA. Zij heeten Vrouwenkracht en Moord, want weet:Zij nemen wraak op zondaars van dien aard.TITUS. Ach, ik dacht hen de zoons der keizerin,En u hun moeder; doch wij aardsche wezensZien met armzaal'ge, dwaas bedriegende oogen.O, lieve Wraak, thans kom ik tot u af;En zoo ??ns arms omhelzing u volstaat,Dan wil ik u terstond er mee omarmen.(Titus boven af.)TAMORA. Z?? met hem om te gaan past bij zijn waanzin.Wat ik nu uitdenk voor zijn dolle vlagen,Steunt gij dat, zet het voort door wat gij zegt;Want hij gelooft nu vast, dat ik de Wraak ben;En daar die waan hem lichtgeloovig maakt,Doe ik hem Lucius, zijnen zoon, ontbieden;Is bij een feestmaal die in mijn bereik,Dan vind ik wel een sluwe list om fluksDe licht verdwaasde Gothen te verstrooien,Of wel, hen tot zijn vijanden te maken,Daar komt hij, ziet; nu speel ik weer mijn rol.(Titus komt weder op, beneden.)TITUS. Lang was ik raad'loos en alleen om u.Wees welkom, Furie, aan mijn weevol huis!--Gij, Vrouwenkracht en Moord, weest ook recht welkom!--O, wat gelijkt gij op de keizerin,Gij op haar zoons! Een Moor alleen ontbreekt;--Kon heel de hel zoo'n duivel u niet leev'ren?Want als de keizerin een voet verzet,Dan heeft zij,--'k weet het goed,--een Moor steeds bij zich;En zoo gij haar naar waarheid voor wilt stellen,Dan moet er zulk een duivel bij u zijn.Maar toch ook welkom zoo! Wat valt te doen?TAMORA. Wat, Andronicus, wilt gij, dat wij doen?DEMETRIUS. Wijs mij een moord'naar; 'k reken met hem af.CHIRON. Wijs mij een schurk, die vrouwenkracht bedreef,En ik ben hier, opdat de wraak hem treff'.TAMORA. Wijs mij een duizendtal, dat u gekrenkt heeft,En ik neem op hen allen felle wraak.TITUS. Zie dan in Rome's booze straten rond,En vindt ge een man daar, die op u gelijkt,Doorsteek hem, lieve Moord; hij is een moord'naar.--Ga gij met hem;--en hebt gij het geluk,Dat gij een ander vindt, die u gelijkt,Doorsteek hem, Vrouwenkracht; 't is een verkrachter.--Ga gij met hen; gij vindt aan 's keizers hofEen keizerin, verzelschapt van een Moor;Aan uw gedaante kunt gij licht haar kennen,Want zij gelijkt van top tot teen op u;Ik bid u, breng hen gewelddadig om;Zij deden mij geweld aan en de mijnen.TAMORA. Uw voorschrift was recht goed; wij zullen 't doen.Maar thans behage 't u, goede Andronicus,Naar Lucius, uwen dapp'ren zoon, te zenden,Die tegen Rome een Gothenleger aanvoert,En hem ten feestmaal in uw huis te nooden;Dan wil ik, als hij neerzit aan uw disch,De keizerin er brengen met haar zoons,Den keizer zelf, elk, die uw vijand is;Zij zullen knielend u genade vragen,En dan stilt gij aan hen uw toornig hart.Wat antwoordt Andronicus op dit voorstel?TITUS. Marcus, mijn broeder!--de arme Titus roept.(Marcus komt op.)Ga, lieve Marcus, naar uw neef, naar Lucius;Vraag bij de Gothen, waar hij is, en zeg hem,Dat ik hem spoedig bij mij wensch te zien,Verzeld van enk'len der voornaamste Gothen;Hij leeg're zijne krijgers waar zij zijn.Meld, dat de keizer, met de keizerin,Eet in mijn huis, en hij met hen moet spijzen.Doe dit om mijnentwil; zoo doe ook hij,Als hem zijns ouden vaders leven lief is.MARCUS. Ik zal het doen en spoedig ben ik weer.(Marcus af.)TAMORA. Nu ga ik weg van hier, maar tijg terstondVoor u aan 't werk, en neem mijn dienaars mede.TITUS. Neen, neen, laat Vrouwenkracht en Moord bij mij;Of anders roep ik nog mijn broeder weer,En houd mij voor mijn wraak alleen aan Lucius.TAMORA (ter zijde tot haar zoons). Wat zegt gij, knapen? wilt gijbij hem blijven,Terwijl ik aan den keizer melden ga,Hoe ik in onze ontworpen scherts geslaagd ben?Viert gij zijn luimen, vleit hem, houdt hem bezig,En toeft bij hem, totdat ik wederkeer.TITUS (ter zijde). 'k Heb hen herkend, al wanen zij mij dol,En ik verstrik hen in hun eigen plannen,Die vloekb're twee helhonden en hun mo?r.DEMETRIUS. Het zij zoo, moeder; ga en laat ons hier.TAMORA. Vaar, Andronicus, wel; de Wrake tracht,Wat vijand is, te leev'ren in uw macht.TITUS. Ik weet, dit doet gij; lieve Wraak, vaarwel!(Tamora af.)CHIRON. Spreek, oude man, welk werk hebt gij voor ons?TITUS. Geduld maar! ik heb werks genoeg voor u.--Publius, kom hier! komt, Cajus, Valentinus!(Publius en Anderen komen op.)PUBLIUS. Wat is uw wensch?TITUS.			   Spreek, kent gij deze twee?PUBLIUS. Ik meen, het zijn de zoons der keizerin,Demetrius en Chiron.TITUS. Wat, Publius! o foei, foei! nu dwaalt gij zeer;Deze een heet Moord, die ander Vrouwenkracht;En daarom, boeit hen, beste Publius, boeit hen;Gij Cajus, Valentinus, grijpt hen aan;Dit uur, hoe vaak hebt gij 't mij hooren wenschen!Nu is het daar; dus boeit hen stevig; stoptDen mond hun, als zij schreeuwen willen.(Titus af.--Publius en de Overigen grijpen Chiron en Demetriusen boeien hen.)CHIRON.				    Schurken,Laat af, wij zijn de zoons der keizerin.PUBLIUS. Juist daarom doen wij, wat bevolen werd.--Stopt hun den mond, dat zij geen woord meer spreken.Is hij geboeid? Zorgt, dat gij stijf hem knevelt!(Titus komt terug, met Lavinia, hij met een mes, zij met eenbekken.)TITUS. Lavinia, zie, geboeid zijn uw belagers.--Stopt hun den mond, dat zij geen woord mij zeggen,Maar zelve luist'ren naar mijn schrikb're taal.--Gij schurken, Chiron en Demetrius,Dit is de bron, door u met vuil besmet,De lieve zomer, door uw vorst bedorven.Gij dooddet haar gemaal, en voor die wandaadVerloren twee van hare broeders 't hoofd,En ik de hand; een scherts, waarom gij lachtet.De tong en beide handen, en,--wat kostb'rerDan tong of hand is,--de onbevlekte reinheid,Ontmenschte schurken, hebt gij haar ontroofd.Wat zoudt gij zeggen, als ik u liet spreken?Gij kondt uit schaamte geen genade vragen.Hoort, schurken, hoe ik u te mart'len denk.'k Hield ??n hand om uw kelen af te steken,Terwijl Lavinia met haar stompen 't bekkenZal houden, dat uw schuldig bloed ontvangt.Gij weet, uw moeder wenscht bij mij te spijzen;Zij noemt zich Wraak en mij houdt zij voor dol.--Hoort, schurken! uw gebeent' maal ik tot stof,En 'k meng daarvan en van uw bloed een deeg,En uit dit deeg maak ik pasteienkorsten,En bak van uwe hoofden twee pasteien;Dan zal die slet, uw eervergeten moeder,Als de aarde doen, verslindend wat zij voortbracht.Dit is het feestmaal, waar ik haar op noodde,Dit het gerecht, waaraan zij smullen zal.Mijn kind leed erger smaad dan Philomela,En erger zij mijn wraak dan Procne's wraak.En nu, hier met uw kelen!--(Hij snijdt hun kelen af.)			     Kom, Lavinia;Vang gij dit bloed nu op, en als zij dood zijn,Wil ik hun beend'ren malen tot fijn stof,Het mengen met dit walg'lijk nat, en danLaat ik hun hoofden bakken in dat deeg.--Komt, komt, dat nu een elk volijv'rig zijVoor dit onthaal, dat gruw'lijker moog' blijkenEn bloediger dan der Centauren feest.Vlug, draagt hen binnen; ik speel nu voor kok,Opdat zij klaar zijn, als hun moeder komt.DERDE TOONEEL.Aldaar. Een open gebouw in Titus' tuin.Lucius, Marcus en Gothen komen op, met Aaron als gevangene. Erstaat een tafel gereed voor een feestmaal.LUCIUS. Oom Marcus, daar mijn vader het verlangt,Dat ik naar Rome kom, vind ik dit goed.EERSTE GOTH. En wij met u; geschiede wat er wil.LUCIUS. Goede oom, bewaar dien woesten Moor hier binnen,Dien fellen tijger, dien gevloekten duivel.Laat hem geen voedsel reiken; kluister hem,Tot hij voor 't oog der keizerin gevoerd wordt,Om van haar booze daden te getuigen.Draag zorg, dat de verholen vrienden sterk zijn;De keizer heeft niets goeds voor, naar ik vrees.AARON. Een duivel fluist're vloeken mij in 't oor,En help' mijn tong, dat zij met kracht het gifVan mijn door wrok gezwollen hart moog' uiten!LUCIUS. Van hier, bloedgier'ge hond, vervloekte schurk!--Gij mannen, helpt onze' oom; voert hem naar binnen!--(De Gothen met Aaron af.--Trompetgeschal.)Dat schallen meldt, dat daar de keizer is.(Saturninus en Tamora komen op, met Tribunen, Senatoren enAnderen.)SATURNINUS. Wat! heeft de hemel meer dan ??ne zon?LUCIUS. Waar dient het toe, dat gij uzelf de zon noemt?MARCUS. Gij Rome's keizer, en gij neef, laat af;Wat u verdeelt, moet kalm besproken worden.Het gastmaal is gereed, dat zorgvol TitusHeeft aangericht tot goed en eervol einde,Voor Rome's eendracht, vrede, vriendschap, heil;Treedt, bid ik, nader, neemt uw plaatsen in.SATURNINUS. Dat zij zoo, Marcus.(Muziek van hobo's. De Gasten nemen plaats.)(Titus komt op, als kok gekleed, verder Lavinia, gesluierd, dejonge Lucius, en Anderen. Titus plaatst de schotels op tafel.)TITUS. Wees welkom, vorst; wees welkom, keizerin;Welkom, krijgshafte Gothen; welkom, Lucius;En welkom, allen! Zij 't onthaal eenvoudig,'t Zal voedzaam zijn; ik bid u dus, tast toe.SATURNINUS. Waarom in zulk een kleeding, Andronicus?TITUS. Ik wilde zeker zijn, dat mijn onthaalU en uw keizerin zou waardig zijn.TAMORA. Wij zijn, goede Andronicus, u recht dankbaar.TITUS. Dit waart gij wis, vorstin, zaagt ge in mijn hart.Mijn heer en keizer, zeg mij eens uw oordeel:Was 't w?l gedaan, dat eens Virginius heftigMet eigen rechterhand zijn dochter doodde,Wijl zij verkracht, onteerd was en bezoedeld?SATURNINUS. Ja, Andronicus.TITUS.			    En uw reed'nen, heer?SATURNINUS. Zoo overleefde zij haar schande niet,Vernieuwde door haar leed niet steeds zijn jammer.TITUS. Een sterke, machtige en voldoende grond;Een voorbeeld, een vermaan, een ware volmachtVoor mij, onzaal'ge, om evenzoo te doen.--Sterf, sterf, Lavinia, en uw smaad meteen;Vaar' met uw smaad uws vaders kommer heen!(Hij doodt Lavinia.)SATURNINUS. Wat doet gij daar, gij onmensch, meer dan wreed?TITUS. Haar doodde ik, om wier lot ik blind mij kreet.'k Ben even weevol als Virginius was,En heb wel duizendmaal meer grond dan hijTot zulk een wandaad;--en ze is nu gedaan.SATURNINUS. Wat! werd ze onteerd? O meld mij, wie dit deed!TITUS. (tot Saturninus). Neem nog wat spijs!--(Tot Tamora.) Ga voort, uw hoogheid, eet!TAMORA. Waarom versloegt ge uw een'ge dochter dus?TITUS. Niet ik, 't was Chiron met Demetrius;Die hebben haar onteerd, de tong ontrukt;Door hen ging ze onder naamloos wee gebukt.SATURNINUS. Ga, haal hen, stel hen voor ons, en terstond.TITUS. Zij zijn daar beide' in die pastei; hen vondHun moeder pas een lekk're spijs; zij at,Wat ze in haar schoot eens droeg, heeft liefgehad.'t Is waar, 't is waar, dit tuig' mijn scherpe dolk.(Hij doodt Tamora.)SATURNINUS. Sterf, dolle schurk; die vloekdaad krijg' haar loon!(Hij doodt Titus.)LUCIUS. Daar vloeit mijns vaders bloed; dat duldt geen zoon!Hier hebt gij dood voor dood en loon voor loon!(Hij doodt Saturninus. Groote opschudding. Marcus, Lucius enAnderen bestijgen de trappen voor Titus' huis.)MARCUS. Ontstelde mannen, Rome's volk en zonen,Verstrooid door 't oproer als een vogelzwerm,Dien wind en stormgeloei uiteen doen spatten,Laat mij u leeren, die verspreide halmenOp nieuw tot ??ne garve saam te voegen,Die stukgereten leden tot ??n lijf,Opdat niet Rome een vloek zij voor zichzelf,En zij, voor wie zoo groote rijken buigen,Niet, als een arm verstoot'ling, zonder hoop,Tot eeuw'gen smaad de hand sla aan zichzelf.Doch zoo mijns winters sneeuw, mijn diepe groeven,Eerwaarde borgen voor mijn rijpe ervaring,U niet bewegen naar mijn woord te luist'ren,--(Tot Lucius.) Spreek, Rome's vriend, als onze stamheer eens,Toen hij met plechtige' ernst aan 't luist'rend oorDer ademlooze, liefdekranke Dido't Verhaal deed van die gruwelnacht des brands,Waarin der Grieken sluwheid Troje nam;Meld, welke Sinon 't oor ons heeft betooverd,En wie 't noodlottig werktuig hier bracht, datOns Troje, ons Rome burgerwonden sloeg.Mijn hart is niet uit staal of steen gevormd,En al ons bitter wee kan ik niet uiten;Een tranenvloed zou mijne taal verdrinken,En mijne stem zou breken, ja, juist dan,Als zij u smeeken moest goed toe te luist'renEn uwe zachte deernis ons te schenken.Hier staat een veldheer, die 't verhaal moog' doen;Uw hart zal snikken, weenen als gij 't hoort.LUCIUS. Dan, eed'le hoorders, zij u thans bericht:Die vloekb're Chiron en Demetrius,Zij waren 't, die des keizers broeder moordden,Zij waren 't ook, die onze zuster schonden.Voor hunne gruw'len stierven onze broeders,Werd onzes vaders diepe smart gehoond,Hem door bedrog die brave hand ontfutseld,Die sta?g voor Rome's roem gestreden had,Haar vijanden ten grave had gezonden,En eind'lijk ik, ikzelf, met smaad verbannen,En Rome's poorten weenend uitgedreven,Om hulp bij Rome's vijanden te zoeken,Die hunnen haat verdronken in mijn tranen,Met open armen mij als vriend omhelsden.En ik ben 't, de uitgestoot'ne,--weet dit, vrienden,--Die Rome's welzijn redde met mijn bloed,En 's vijands zwaard afkeerde van haar borst,Zijn staal een sche? gaf in mijn waagziek lijf.Gij allen weet, dat ik geen pocher ben;Litteekens mogen stom zijn, toch getuigenDe mijne, dat ik zuiv're waarheid spreek.Doch stil! mij dunkt, te verre dwaal ik af,Mijn luttel doen zoo roemend;--o, vergeeft,Elk prijst, is hem geen vriend nabij, zichzelf.MARCUS. Nu is 't aan mij, te spreken. Ziet dit kind;Aan dezen knaap schonk Tamora het leven;De telg is 't van een godvergeten Moor,Den hoofdontwerper, smeder dezer jamm'ren.De booswicht is in Titus' huis nog levend,En moet getuigen, dat dit waarheid is.Gij, oordeelt nu, wat reden Titus hadOm al dit onuitspreek'lijk leed te wreken,Dat meer is, dan een mensch ooit dragen kan.En nu gij alles weet, spreekt nu, Romeinen:Is iets door ons misdreven? Toont ons dit,En van de plaats, waar gij ons hier ziet staan,Zal 't luttel overschot der AndroniciVoorover, hand in hand zich nederstorten,Op 't ruw gesteente zich het brein verplett'renEn saam een einde maken aan hun stam.Romeinen, spreekt! en is 't uw welgevallen,Ziet mij en Lucius, hand in hand, hier vallen.?MILIUS. Neen, kom! eerwaardige Romein, en stell'Veeleer uw hand ons onzen keizer voor,Den keizer Lucius; want ik weet, met mijRoept elk, als ik: "Dat Lucius keizer zij!"Allen. Heil, Lucius, heil! heil, Rome's eed'le keizer!(Lucius, Marcus en de Overigen dalen af.)MARCUS (tot eenige Dienaars). Gaat thans in 't rouwhuis van denouden Titus,En sleur dien godvergeten Moor hierheen,Opdat een ongehoorde marteldoodAls straf bepaald zij voor zijn gruw'lijk leven.(Eenige Dienaars af.)ALLEN. Heil, Lucius, heil! heil, Rome's eed'le keizer!LUCIUS. Romeinen, dank! en, goden, hoort mijn be?,Dat ik genezing brenge en heil na wee!--Doch lieve vrienden, gunt mij thans nog rust;Eerst eischt natuur van mij een zwaren plicht.--Wijkt gij terug;--maar, oom, treed nader, plengMe? vrome tranen dezen doode.--Ontvang(Hij kust Titus.)Mijn warmen kus op uw koudbleeke lippen,Op uw bebloede wang mijn weemoedsdruppels,Als laatste trouwe hulde van uw zoon.MARCUS. O traan voor traan en liefdekus voor kusBiedt hier uw broeder Marcus aan uw lippen;O waar' hun som, die ik betalen moest,Ontelbaar, eindloos, toch betaalde ik die!LUCIUS. Kom, knaap, kom hier, en leer van ons, hoe liefdeIn tranen smelt. Grootvader had u lief,En vaak liet hij u dansen op zijn knie,Zong u in slaap, zijn trouwe borst als kussen;En vele dingen heeft hij u verteld,Geschikt en juist gekozen voor uw jonkheid;Herdenk dit en vergiet, als minnend kind,Dan een'ge droppen uit uw teed're bron,Want vriendlijk heeft natuur als wet gesteld,Dat in het leed een vriend zijn vriend verzelt;Zeg hem vaarwel, vertrouw hem aan zijn graf,Bewijs dien liefdeplicht en neem dan afscheid.DE JONGE LUCIUS. Grootvader! ach, grootvader! o, hoe gaarneStierf ik, zoo gij dan weer herleven mocht!O god! door 't weenen kan ik niets meer zeggen;Ik stik in tranen, open ik den mond.(De Dienaars komen terug, met Aaron.)EEN ROMEIN. Staakt, treurende Andronici, thans uw rouwklacht!Maar spreekt het vonnis van den onverlaat,Die al deez' gruweldaden heeft verwekt.LUCIUS. Begraaft hem tot de borst om te verhong'ren;Zoo sta hij vast, en woede, en schreeuwe om spijs;Zoo iemand hem verkwikt, hem deernis toont,Die sterft voor deze schuld. Dit is ons vonnis;Zorgt, dat hij goed in de aard bevestigd wordt.AARON. O, waarom zouden wrok en woede zwijgen?Ik ben geen kind, dat ik met laf gebedDe gruw'len zou betreuren, die ik deed.Tien duizend erg're dan ik ooit bedreef,Zou ik begaan, zoo ik naar lust kon hand'len;En deed ik ??n goed werk in heel mijn leven,Dan is het dit, wat mij van harte rouwt.LUCIUS. Den keizer mogen trouwe vrienden halenEn in zijns vaders graf ter aard bestellen.Mijn vader en Lavinia voeren wijTerstond naar 't grafgewelf van ons geslacht.Aan Tamora, de felle tijgerin,Wordt uitvaart, noch gevolg in rouwgewaad,Noch klokgebrom gegund; werpt haar in 't veldAan 't wild gedierte en 't roofgevogelt' voor.Beestachtig was haar leven, zonder deernis;Zij vinde na den dood bij niemand deernis.Voert Aaron nu ter straf, den vloek'bren Moor,Die de oorsprong was van al ons naamloos wee;Dan reeg'len wij den staat, zoodat voor goedEen ramp en nood als deze zijn verhoed.(Allen af.)AANTEEKENINGEN.De oudste uitgave van Titus Andronicus, die tot ons gekomen is,dagteekent van het jaar 1600. De titel dezer quarto-uitgave luidt alsvolgt: _The most lamentable Romaine Tragedie of Titus Andronicus. Asit hath Sundry times beene playde by the Right Honourable the Earleof Pembrooke, the Earle of Darbie, the Earle of Sussex, and theLorde Chamberlaine theyr Seruants. At London, Printed by J. R. forEdward White, 1600_. Van de vier genoemde tooneelgezelschappen ishet laatste dat, waar Shakespeare zelf deel van uitmaakte. De tekstis vrij nauwkeurig te noemen.Een tweede uitgave in quarto verscheen in 1611; zij noemt op dentitel alleen het tooneelgezelschap van Shakespeare: _As it hathsundrie times beene playde by the Kings Maiesties Seruants_, enwijkt overigens niet noemenswaard van de vorige af. Deze uitgaveschijnt ten grondslag gelegd te zijn aan den druk, toen het stukin de folio-uitgave der gezamenlijke tooneelwerken van Shakespeare,van 1623, werd opgenomen. Bij laatstgenoemden afdruk vindt men echterafwijkingen, waarschijnlijk door vergelijking met het handschrift,dat bij het tooneelgezelschap berustte, en zelfs een geheel tooneel,het tweede van het derde bedrijf, dat in geen der beide quarto-uitgavenvoorkomt. Dit tooneel, dat de handeling niet vooruitbrengt, werdwaarschijnlijk bij de vertooning weggelaten en daarom niet in dequarto-uitgaven opgenomen; dat het niet later bijgevoegd werd, maarreeds dadelijk een deel uitmaakte van het stuk, is onbetwijfelbaar.Op den titel der quarto-uitgaven wordt de naam des dichters nietgenoemd, maar dit is niets vreemds in dien tijd; in de eerste uitgavenvan den Richard II, Richard III, Hendrik IV (eerste deel), Hendrik V,Romeo en Julia is evenzoo de naam van Shakespeare weggelaten. Datde vrienden en kunstgenooten des dichters, Heminge en Condell, diede folio-uitgave van 1623 bezorgden, dit stuk, onder den titel van_The lamentable Tragedie of Titus Andronicus_, onder de treurspelenvan Shakespeare opnamen, mag een bewijs gerekend worden, dat Sh. engeen ander de schrijver is.Hier is ondertusschen nog een ander en opmerkelijk bewijs voor aante halen. Een tijdgenoot, en waarschijnlijk een goede bekende vanShakespeare, een man, met de letterkunde van zijn tijd welvertrouwd,Francis Meres, schreef,--en niet in een later tijdperk van Sh.'s leven,maar reeds in 1598,--dat Sh. uitblonk in het schrijven van tragedies enhaalde als bewijzen daarvan aan: "zijn Richard II, Richard III, HendrikIV, Koning Jan, Titus Andronicus, en zijn Romeo en Julia". FrancisMeres noemt dus zeer bepaald Shakespeare als schrijver van den TitusAndronicus.Daar de woorden van Meres van veel belang zijn voor de dagteekening vaneenige der oudste stukken van Sh., moge hier, in de aanteekeningen vanSh.'s oudste stuk, zijn getuigenis woordelijk aangehaald worden. Hetis te vinden in zijn: _Palladis Tamia, Wits Treasury: being the SecondPart of Wits Commonwealth. London_ 1598."_As the soule of Euphorbus was thought to live in Pythagoras, so thesweet worthie soule of Ovid lives in mellifluous and honey tonguedShakespeare; witnes his Venus and Adonis, his Lucrece, his sugredsonnets among his private friends.__As Plautus and Seneca are accounted the best for comedy andtragedy among the Latines, so Shakespeare among the English is themost excellent in both kinds for the stage; for comedy witnes hisGentlemen of Verona, his Errors, his Loue Labours Lost, his LoueLabours Wonne_,--waarmee "Eind goed, Al goed" moet bedoeld zijn,--_hisMidsummer Night Dreame, and his Merchant of Venice; for tragedy, hisRichard the 2, Richard the 3, Henry the 4, King John, Titus Andronicus,and his Romeo and Juliet_._As Epius Stolo said that the muses would speake with Plautus tongue,if they would speake Latin, so I say that the muses would speake withShakespeare fine filed phrase, if they would speake English._"Hieruit blijkt tevens, dat de Titus Andronicus reeds in 1598geschreven en ten tooneele gebracht was. Maar het stuk is zekerouder. In 1691 werd door zekeren _Gerald Langbaine_ uitgegeveneen _Account of the English Dramatick Poets_; daarin wordt gewaggemaakt van een uitgave van _Titus Andronicus_ in quarto, van 1594,waarvan thans geen exemplaar meer bekend is. Dat zijn mededeelingjuist kan zijn, en hij zulk een exemplaar kan gezien hebben, blijktuit het register van het boekhandelaarsgilde, waarin, op den datumvan 6 Februari 1593, ten behoeve van _John Danter_ is ingeschreven:"_A booke entitled a noble Roman Historye of Titus Andronicus._" Opdeze inschrijving volgt: "_Entered also unto him, by warrant fromMr. Woodcock, the ballad thereof._" De ballade, die, volgens dezeinschrijving, van het tooneelstuk of de geschiedenis gedrukt werd,is hoogstwaarschijnlijk dezelfde, die door Percy in zijn _Reliquesof Ancient English Poetry_ onder den titel van "_The Lamentable andTragical History of Titus Andronicus_" is medegedeeld en ontleendis uit een oude gedichtenverzameling zonder datum. (Ook in DeliusSh.-uitgaaf is zij afgedrukt.) Dat zij _na_ het tooneelstuk gedichtis, kan uit de eenvoudige lezing blijken; er wordt bij voorbeeld ingesproken van het pijlen-schieten door Titus Andronicus, wat zonderde kennis van het populaire tooneelstuk geheel onverstaanbaar zou zijn.De Titus Andronicus moet dus v??r Febr. 1593 geschreven zijn. Eenopmerking van Ben Jonson noopt ons verder, het stuk voor nog eenigejaren ouder te houden. Deze zegt in het voorspel van zijn blijspel"de Bartholome?s-mis", _Bartholomew Fair_, dat in 1614 werd opgevoerd:"_He that will swear Jeronimo and Andronicus are the best plays yet,shall pass unexcepted at here, as a man, whose judgment shows it isconstant, and hath stood still these five-and-twenty or thirty years._"Hier wordt dus Titus Andronicus in ??n adem genoemd met _Thomas Kyd_'s_Jeronimo_,--waarmede de Spaansche tragedie, _the Spanish tragedy orHieronymo is mad again_, bedoeld is,--en gezegd, dat hij, die dezetwee stukken nog voor de beste houdt, vijf en twintig of dertig jarenin smaak ten achteren is. Zijn die 25 jaar letterlijk op te vatten,dan is Titus Andronicus van het jaar 1589, misschien nog enkele jarenvroeger. Bedenken wij nu, dat Shakespeare in April 1564 geborenwerd te Stratford aan den Avon, er in zijn 20ste jaar (Nov. 1582)trouwde, er in 1583 een dochter kreeg en in 1585 tweelingen, dan zalhij op zijn vroegst in laatstgenoemd jaar naar Londen gekomen zijn enzich aan het tooneel verbonden hebben. Dat hij het handschrift nietvan Stratford heeft medegebracht, maar dat het stuk geschreven is,nadat Sh. met de tooneelwereld bekend was geworden, is buiten allentwijfel. Op zijn allervroegst kan het stuk dus in 1586 geschrevenzijn, doch waarschijnlijk is het eerst twee of drie jaar later gereedgekomen. Met het oog op andere stukken zal het echter niet veel laterdan 1589 voltooid zijn, toen Shakespeare 25 jaar telde; veel vroegerkan men het ook niet stellen, daar de dichter zich tooneelkennisheeft moeten eigen maken. Men mag onderstellen, dat hij zich in hetlandstadje Stratford door opmerkzaamheid de uitgebreide en nauwkeurigekennis van dieren, planten en natuurverschijnselen heeft verworven,waarvan zijn werken blijk geven, en verder slechts uit enkele boeken,den bijbel b.v., Holinshed's kroniek, Ovidius' Metamorphosen [1],zijn kennis verrijkt heeft, maar dat hij zijn bedrevenheid in deletterkunde en in allerlei vakken van wetenschap,  zijn inzicht inmaatschappelijke toestanden, zijn diepe menschenkennis vooral in Londenheeft opgedaan. Daar, in de tooneelwereld verkeerende, kon hij eersttot het schrijven van een tooneelwerk komen, en geen wonder, dat dejeugdige dichter een stof koos, die in overeenstemming was met densmaak van het publiek en van zijn tijd. De fabelachtige geschiedenisvan Titus Andronicus was ongetwijfeld niet nieuw en waarschijnlijkuit een novelle aan het publiek welbekend, want zulke verhalen, inverzamelingen vereenigd, werden toen ter tijd vlijtig gelezen. Er isons geen novelle van Titus Andronicus bewaard gebleven, maar dat zijbestaan moet hebben, blijkt uit de novellen-verzameling van _Painter_,_The Palace of Pleasure_ geheeten; in het tweede deel er van, dat in1567 het licht zag, wordt in het voorbijgaan van Titus en meer bepaaldvan Tamora's wreedheid gewag gemaakt. Meer dan ??n voorbeeld kon aanShakespeare de overtuiging geven, dat deze stof hem een dankbaaronderwerp zou wezen; met dergelijke toneelstukken was het publiekhooglijk ingenomen. Een voorbeeld leveren ons twee stukken van denboven reeds genoemden Thomas Kyd: deze trad in 1588 op met een stuk_Hieronymo_ of _Jeronimo_, en eenigen tijd later met zijn SpaanscheTragedie, ook genaamd _Hieronymo is mad again_, waarin Hieronymo dolwordt om het verlies van zijn zoon. Dit laatste stuk vond toen tertijd een buitengewonen bijval en bleef, evenals de Titus Andronicus,wel vijf en twintig of dertig jaar bij het publiek zeer geliefd,zooals onder andere uit de ergernis van Ben Jonson blijkt.--Er is eengroote overeenkomst tusschen den Titus Andronicus en den Jeronimo;in beide is de held een eerbiedwaardig grijsaard, die voor de grootediensten, door hem bewezen, met de mishandeling en den moord derzijnen beloond wordt, en die, om wraak te nemen op zijn belagers,genoodzaakt is zich als een waanzinnige voor te doen. De slachting,die in beide stukken aangericht wordt, is even groot; in beide blijvener van de hoofdpersonen slechts weinigen in leven.--Wil men hier nadervan overtuigd worden, dan leze men slechts het slot van den Jeronimo,een epiloog, die door een geest wordt uitgesproken:	"Ay, now my hopes have end in their effects,	When blood and sorrow finish my desires.	Horatio murdered in his father's bower;	Vile Serberine by Pedringano slain;	False Pedringano hang'd by quaint device;	Fair Isabella by herself misdone;	Prince Balthasar by Belimperia stabb'd;	The duke of Castille, and his wicked son,	Both done to death by old Hieronymo;	Then Belimperia fallen, as Dido fell;	And good Hieronymo slain by himself:	Ay, these were spectacles to please my soul."Zulk een stuk geeft den Titus Andronicus niets toe inbloederigheid. Het wordt bovendien nog opgeluisterd door een stommevertooning, een pantomime, _dumb show_, een vreemde toevoeging aaneen tooneelwerk, die toen zeer in zwang was; men vindt er gebruikvan gemaakt in den Pericles, en in het tooneelstuk, dat Hamlet tenhove vertoonen laat.Met de zoo even genoemde Spaansche tragedie van Kyd hadden veletoenmalige stukken overeenkomst, en Shakespeare schikte zich, bij hetschrijven van zijn eersteling, naar den geest van zijn tijd; en nietalleen in de keuze van het onderwerp, maar ook in meerdere opzichtentreedt hij in de voetstappen zijner voorgangers. Reeds hieruit zoukunnen blijken, dat de Titus Andronicus zijn eersteling was, dochmen wordt hier nader van overtuigd, als men opmerkt, dat de dichterin den loop van het stuk vorderingen maakt, en dat het eerste bedrijfverreweg het zwakste van alle is. Na den Titus Andronicus begaf zichde dichter aan het schrijven van zijn Koning Hendrik VI, van welksdrie deelen ook weder het eerste zwakker is dan de beide volgende. Welvolgde hij meer en meer zijn eigen weg en overtreffen zijn stukkendie zijner tijdgenooten verre, maar bij alle verschil is er tochgenoeg overeenkomst met de laatste op te merken, dat de in ellendewegstervende dichter Robert Greene, die zijn eigen tooneelwerkenen die zijner vrienden reeds zag tanen voor Shakespeare's luister,hem in 1592 niet geheel en al ten onrechte een "opkomeling" noemde,"gesierd met onze vederen." Een nieuweling, die geen academischeopleiding genoten had, stond in kennis niet bij hen ten achteren,behandelde dergelijke stoffen als zij, wist die met mythologischebloempjes op te sieren, schreef verzen, die niet minder goed klonkendan de hunne! Men zie hierover de aanteekeningen in het derde deel opKoning Hendrik VI. Met Koning Richard III kan men rekenen, dat dezeeerste periode van Shakespeare's leven gesloten wordt, die, behalvede genoemde stukken, nog enkele blijspelen, verscheidene sonnettenen Venus en Adonis heeft opgeleverd.De overeenkomst, die zoo even werd toegegeven, is echter meerschijnbaar dan wezenlijk, en bij nauwkeuriger toezien blijken deverschillen zeer belangrijk te zijn. Dit gezegde vereischt een naderetoelichting. Wanneer men den statigen gang der verzen, waarmede heteerste bedrijf begint, nagaat, dan zou men meenen, dat de versbouwvan Marlowe wordt nagebootst, maar lezen wij verder, dan bemerken wijweldra, dat de dichter zich geen boeien laat aanleggen, dat het hemniet te doen is om de ooren zijner toehoorders met prachtig rollendeverzen te vullen, maar dat hij verscheidenheid brengt in de rusten,het slepende einde der regels en zelfs afwijkingen van den gewonenversbouw niet schuwt, kortom zijn stijl naar omstandigheden wijzigt. Indit opzicht gaat hij niet alleen verder dan Marlowe, maar ook verderdan Kyd, die wel is waar het majestueuze van Marlowe niet bereikt,maar meer verscheidenheid in zijn regels wist te brengen. Er mogenog aanmerkelijk verschil bestaan tusschen den versbouw van denTitus Andronicus en van Shakespeare's latere stukken, wij kunnentoch reeds hier het streven naar eenvoudigheid en natuurlijkheid inde verzen ontdekken.Dit zelfde geldt, wanneer men op de geheele uiting der gedachtenlet. Bij een stuk met een inhoud als Titus Andronicus moet deverleiding voor een jong dichter, om de personen in mateloozejammerklachten, in afgrijselijke wraakkreten te doen uitbarsten, zeersterk geweest zijn, vooral in een tijd, dat zulk een taal door anderengebezigd werd en blijkbaar in den smaak van het publiek viel. En toch,de jeugdige Shakespeare nam een zekere matiging in acht. Men oordeele:in een stuk, _Lust's dominion_ geheeten, dat wel eens, schoon tenonrechte, aan Marlowe is toegeschreven, komt ook een Moor voor, daarEleazar geheeten; van dezen kan men zeggen, dat hij spreekt op demanier van Koning Cambyses (I K. Hendrik IV, II. 4. 425). Eleazar zegt:	"Now, Tragedy, thou minion of the night,	Rhamnusia, play-fellow, to thee I'll sing	Upon a harp made of dead Spanish bones,--	The proudest instrument the world affords--	When thou in crimson jollity shall bathe	Thy limbs as black as mine, in springs of blood	Still gushing from the conduit-head of Spain.	To thee that never blushest, though thy cheeks	Are full of blood, O Saint Revenge, to thee	I consecrate my murders, all my stabs,	My bloody labours, tortures, stratagems,	The volume of all wounds that wound from me,--	Mine is the stage, thine the tragedy."Men vergelijke hiermede de uitingen van den Moor Aaron en men zalSh.'s streven naar eenvoud en natuurlijkheid erkennen.De matiging, waarvan Shakespeare blijk geeft, mag inderdaad opprijs gesteld worden. Als Tamora's zoon Alerbus ter slachtingwordt weggeleid, hooren wij slechts een enkelen uitroep van Tamora(I. 1. 130); als Titus zijn zoon Mucius in drift doorstoken heeft,zijn de woorden van Lucius (I. 1. 292) zeer eenvoudig en gematigd;hetzelfde moet gezegd worden van Lavinia's woorden tot Tamora(II. 3. 136), van Marcus' klacht bij het ontmoeten van de geschondenLavinia (II. 4. 11. en volgg.). Als Titus' zoons ter dood geleidzijn en zijn verminkte dochter Lavinia tot hem gebracht wordt, barsthij uit in roerende jammerklachten, maar geen stroom van vloeken enverwenschingen komt er uit zijn mond (III. 1. 91); ja dit gebeurtzelfs niet, als hij zijn hand heeft opgeofferd om zijn zonen teredden; dan roept hij uit (III. 1. 207): "O, hier hef ik deze eenehand ten hemel" en zijn klacht is niet eens bovenmatig, maar wordttoch, als te overdreven, door zijn broeder gegispt. Als dan zijnzonen toch geslacht zijn en zijn jammer ten top is gevoerd, zegt hij(III. 1. 267) eenvoudig: "Ik heb geen tranen meer te storten over" endenkt eerst daarna aan wraak. Als Titus aan Tamora heeft medegedeeld,aan welk een gruwelijk maal zij zich te goed heeft gedaan (V. 3. 60),spaart de dichter ons de jammerkreten der rampzalige moeder; haar doodvolgt oogenblikkelijk, evenals die van Titus en van Saturninus; eenmatiging, die men bij weinige dichters van zijn tijd zal aantreffen.Dat wij in Titus Andronicus het werk bezitten van een echten dichter,blijkt bij het aandachtig lezen van het stuk telkens meer. De personen,die er in optreden, zijn geen tooneelpoppen, aan welke woorden inden mond worden gelegd, maar menschen van vleesch en bloed. Tamorais door de vereeniging van een doordringend en vlug verstand, doorzelfbeheersching, heftige hartstochten en zedelijke verdorvenheid,een opmerkelijke schepping; haar levendige verbeelding leent haarbekoorlijkheid en uit haar mond vernemen wij echt dichterlijke taal;men zie slechts II. 3. 10-29, en in hetzelfde tooneel reg. 93-104;IV. 4. 81 en vlgg.; V. 1. 30 enz. Men ga verder het karakter en dehandelingen van den ouden Titus na; men overwege, hoe de dichter denonmenschelijken duivel Aaron door een enkelen trek, de liefde voor zijnbasterdkind (zie IV. 2. 175), tot een mensch gemaakt heeft, zoodat zijnstraf er des te rechtvaardiger door wordt en belang stelling inboezemt;men herleze de woorden, waarmede Lucius zijn zoon aanmaant, om denagedachtenis van den ouden Titus, van den beminnenden grootvader, ineere te houden, V. 3. 160 enz.;--en men zal tot de overtuiging komen,dat er geen redenen bestaan, om de meening te verdedigen, dat ditstuk al te onvolkomen is om een werk van den jeugdigen Shakespeare tekunnen wezen. Integendeel, een nauwkeurig onderzoek bevestigt veeleerde juistheid der verklaring van Francis Meres. Het blijkt dan tevens,dat dit treurspel een werk is uit ??n stuk, dat er geen enkele grondbestaat om er twee handen in aan te nemen; het is niet een ouder arbeidvan een ander, waar Shakespeare eenige veranderingen in gemaakt heeft,maar wel degelijk zijn eigen stuk, dat door geen ander dichter zoo zougemaakt zijn en waarin men den jeugdigen leeuw reeds aan zijn klauwherkent; de onvolkomenheden, die men er in opmerkt, zijn geen andere,dan men verwachten kan in het eerste werk van een jongen dichter,die, hoezeer hij later alle andere moge overschaduwd hebben, tochook een kind van zijn tijd geweest is.Het behoeft ons, Nederlanders, niet moeilijk te vallen, de goedeeigenschappen van den Titus Andronicus te waardeeren. "In November1641 werd in den schouwburg [te Amsterdam] een treurspel vertoond,dat algemeen opzien wekte. Het stuk was getiteld: _Aran en Titus, ofWraak en Weerwraak_. De dichter was een burgerjongen, een glazenmaker,zonder eenige kennis der Grieksche of Latijnsche taal; zijn naam,toen nog geheel onbekend, luidde Jan Vos. Professor Barl?us was zoomet zijn werk ingenomen, dat hij hem gelijk stelde met Sofokles. Opzijn aansporen gingen zijn vrienden het stuk zien: Hooft en Van derBurgh stonden verbaasd, en Vondel verklaarde, dat de dichter eengenie was. Van Baerle zelf kon zich aan de tragedie niet zat zien:hij ging zevenmaal achtereen zich daaraan vergasten. Hij was erzoo vol van, dat hij er brieven over schreef aan zijn vrienden enHuygens uitnoodigde over te komen om haar te bewonderen. De geheeleoudheid had volgens hem geen zoodanig treurspel aan te wijzen: hetwekte echt tragische aandoeningen op en was geschreven in de taal vanHooft en Vondel. Eindelijk wijdde hij er een Hollandsch gedicht aan,dat aldus eindigt:		Ik stae gelijk bedwelmt en overstolpt van geest,	De Schouwburg wort verzet, en schoeit op hooger leest.	Rijst Sophocles weer op? stampt ?schylus weer hier?	Of maekt Euripides dit ongewoon getier?	Neen, 't is een Ambachtsman, een ongelettert gast,	Die nu de gantsche rey van Helicon verrast,	Die noyt gezeten heeft aan Grieks of Roomsche disch,	Wijst nu de weerelt aan, wat dat een Treurspel is.		_Athenen_ las het spel, en sprak: ik schrijf niet meer;	Die ons door glas verlicht, verduystert al ons eer." [2]Wanneer men in het eerste deel der gedichten van Jan Vos (Amsterdam1862) den vrij uitvoerigen inhoud van den Aran en Titus leest, zietmen onmiddellijk, dat het geheele beloop van het stuk, op enkelekleinigheden na, evenzoo is als bij Sh.'s Titus Andronicus. Men zouhieruit vermoeden, dat het stuk een eenigszins omgewerkte vertalingis van het Engelsch origineel. Wanneer wij dan tot de lezing vanden Aran en Titus overgaan, blijkt ons echter, dat er veel grooterverschil is, dan men naar de inhoudsopgave zou verwachten. Het stukis geen vertaling van Shakespeare's treurspel, maar toch heeft JanVos dit gekend en nagevolgd, zoodat er hier en daar overeenstemmendepassages in voorkomen, niettegenstaande men er zeker van kan zijn,dat Jan Vos geen enkele vreemde taal machtig was. De verklaringhiervan is zeer eenvoudig. Tegen het einde der zestiende eeuw hadde tooneelkunst in Engeland een groote hoogte bereikt en was inwestelijk Europa, waar zij nog op een lagen trap stond, zeer goedaangeschreven. Vandaar, dat Engelsche tooneelgezelschappen meermalenondernamen Nederland, Duitschland en Denemarken te bezoeken. Dat bijdeze reizende troepen zich juist de uitstekendste acteurs bevonden,valt wel niet te denken; toch hadden zij veel toeloop. Telkens vindtmen van zulke gezelschappen gewag gemaakt; reeds in 1591 verschenenzij in ons land, verder in 1597, 1604, 1605, 1607; tot 1629 kwamenzij vrij geregeld en ook later nog, tot 1644 of 1645. Evenzoo werdDuitschland bezocht, en daar is omstreeks 1600 de Titus Andronicusdoor Engelsche komedianten opgevoerd. Een vrije proza-bewerking ervan bevindt zich in een bundel: "Englischen Kom?dien und Trag?dien"(die in 1620 het licht zag) en draagt den titel: "Eine sehr kl?glicheTragoedie von Tito Andronico und der hoffertigen Keyserin, darinnendenkw?rdige _actiones_ zu befinden"; zij is in Tieck's "DeutschesTheater" (1817) en in Albert Cohn's "Shakspeare in Germany" (1865)overgedrukt.--Daar Titus Andronicus onder de stukken behoorde,die door reizende Engelsche tooneelgezelschappen vertoond werden,zal ongetwijfeld door zulke voorstellingen Jan Vos er bekend meegeworden zijn. Men wordt daarin bevestigd, als men opmerkt, datde Duitsche vrije bewerking in menig opzicht met den Aran en Titusovereenkomst heeft, zoowel in wat uit Shakespeare is weggelaten alsin wat breeder is uitgewerkt, en dat beide als het ware wedijveren omal wat naar karakterteekening zweemt, al wat fijn bedacht, liefelijk,echt dichterlijk is bij Shakespeare, er uit te werken; in dit opzichtsteekt de Duitscher den Hollander de loef nog af.Als men in den Aran en Titus de verwijten van Titus' dochter aande overspelige Tamora, of liever het gekijf der twee wijven, leest,als men Aran hoort stoffen op zijn misdaden, Tamora hoort weeklagen,dat zij haar eigen zoons "zoo gierig" heeft "ingeslokt", als menTitus hoort wenschen, dat hij Tamora's "darmen" mocht "ophasp'len opzijn armen", als men de koren leest, die van Baerle nog wel als eenproefje aan Huygens zond om hem te doen watertanden, dan staat menniet alleen verbaasd, dat een man als van Baerle dit kon bewonderen,maar zal meer dan ooit gestemd zijn, om aan de dichterlijke waardevan Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus volle recht te doen wedervaren[3], al moet men toegeven, dat het in een geheel anderen geest danzijn overige stukken, in een vroegeren stijl geschreven is.I. 1. 8. [4] _Mijn voorrang_. In het Engelsch staat _age_, waarmedeSaturninus bedoelt, dat hij ouder is dan Bassianus en naar hetrecht van eerstgeboorte den voorrang moet hebben.--Als Bassianuszich, twee regels verder, C?sars zoon noemt, bedenke men, dat allekeizers den naam van C?sar droegen; hij wil den weg naar het kapitoolbezet houden, opdat de Romeinen zich niet aan het eerstgeboorterechtbehoefden te onderwerpen, maar vrij konden kiezen; Bassianus meentdoor zijn verdiensten meer aanspraak te hebben op den troon.I. 1. 77. _Gij groote schutsheer van dit kapitool._ Jupiter.I. 1. 88. _Aan den oever van den Styx._ Zoolang de lijken onbegravenzijn, moeten de schimmen omdwalen bij den Styx zonder rust te vinden;zie Homerus' Odyssea XI. 51. Het Latijn, dat volgt, _ad manes fratrum_,aan de schimmen hunner broeders, is niet van het beste.I. 1. 136. _Die aan Hecuba._ In het Engelsch staat: de Koninginvan Troje, waarmede Hecuba gemeend is. Volgens den Griekschentreurspeldichter Euripides had Priamus, Troje's val voorziende, zijnjongen zoon Polydorus aan zijn gastvriend Polymestor, koning op deThracische Chersonesus (thans het schiereiland van Gallipoli of derDardanellen) met vele schatten toevertrouwd. Polymestor echter dooddena Troje's val den jongeling en het lijk werd door Priamus' weduwe,die als gevangene door de Grieken werd medegevoerd, op het strandgevonden. De rampzalige moeder wist door list den moordenaar tot zichte lokken en zij krabde hem, door de andere gevangen Trojaanschevrouwen bijgestaan, de oogen uit. Ovidius verhaalt de geschiedenisin zijn Gedaanteverwisselingen (XIII, 432 vgg.) en uit dezen dichterzal zij aan Sh. bekend zijn geworden.I. 1. 177. _Daar zij 't geluk van Solon heeft erlangd._ Solon zeidetot koning Croesus van Lydi?, dat niemand voor zijn dood gelukkig tenoemen was.I. 1. 185. _Wees alzoo candidatus_, d. i. met de witte toga bekleed,waarin zij zich wikkelden, die bij de overheid en het volk naaropenbare ambten dongen; het Latijnsche woord beteekent hier duskroonpretendent. De voorgangers van Sh. spreidden gaarne hungeleerdheid ten toon en bezigden Latijnsche en zelfs Griekschewoorden. [5] Sh. treedt hier in hun voetstappen en brengt later(I. 1. 280) het zeggen "Suum cuique", "Aan ieder het zijne", te pas:zoo wordt ook (I. 1. 325) het huwelijksfeest "Hymen?us" genoemd;met die klassieke herinnering is weinig in overeenstemming, dat hethuwelijk in het Pantheon met gebruik van wijwater en waskaarsen (inhet oorspronkelijke staat _tapers_, de vertaling heeft _toortsen_)gesloten wordt.I. 1. 380. _La?rtes' wijze zoon._ Ulysses.I. 1. 494. _Begroeten wij met hoorn en hond uw hoogheid._ In 'tEngelsch: _With horn and hound we'll give your grace bonjour._ Het_bonjour_ is de morgengroet en opwekking ter jacht, veelal _hunts-up_geheeten. De jachthoorn is niet bijzonder antiek.--_Een dag vanverzoening_, wat voorafgaat, is in 't Engelsch _a loveday_, waarmeeeen dag wordt aangeduid, voor het bijleggen van oneenigheden bepaald;geestelijken waren dikwijls bemiddelaars; Chaucer zegt van een monnik:"In lovedays there coude he mochel help."II. 1. 7. _Haar baan doorrent._ In het Engelsch wordt als baan deDierenriem, Zodiak, genoemd.II. 1. 37. _Nu kalm wat, kalm!_ In het Engelsch staat "_Clubs, clubs!_"de gewone uitroep, om bij straatgevechten de handhavers der orde erbij te roepen. Een paar regels later staat _dansrapier_; in Sh.'stijd werd er met een degen op zijde gedanst, vergelijk _Eind goed,Al goed_, II. 1. 32.II. 1. 47. _Nabij des keizers slot._ Het was in de middeleeuwen strengverboden, in of nabij het paleis van den vorst het zwaard te trekken.II. 1. 67. _Zoo de keizerin dien wanklank hoort._ In 't Engelsch:_An should the empress know This discord's ground_; een woordspeling,die ook in K. Richard III, III. 7. 49. voorkomt; _ground_ beteekentzoowel "grond", "oorzaak", als "muzikaal thema"; bovendien beteekent_discord_ zoowel "dissonant" als "tweedracht." Evenals hier vindtmen de beide beteekenissen te gelijk bedoeld in Troilus en Cressida,I. 3. 110 en in Lucretia 1124.II. 1. 89. _Vulcanus' tooi._ Shakespeare maakt ook elders van Venusen Mars gewag; men zie Antonius en Cleopatra, I. 5. 18 en Venus enAdonis, 97.II. 1. 133. _Sit fas aut nefas_, "Zij het recht of onrecht", hij wilen zal zijn doel bereiken, "al moest hij over den Styx en door deschimmen heen." Het schijnt dat de Latijnsche uitdrukkingen aan detreurspelen van Seneca ontleend zijn.II. 3. 22. _De vorst, die zwierf._ Natuurlijk wordt ?neas bedoeld,die hier als een dolend ridder wordt voorgesteld.II. 3. 30. _Besture Venus uw begeerten_ enz. Aan de planeet Venus werdeen verhittende, aan Saturnus een bekoelende invloed toegeschrevenop wie onder haar gesternte geboren waren.II. 3. 43. _Waarop zijn Philomela tongloos wordt._ Lavinia wordt omde verminking, die haar wacht, met Philomela vergeleken. Philomelawas de dochter van den Atheenschen koning Pandion, de zuster vanProcne. De laatstgenoemde was door haar vader uitgehuwlijkt aanTereus, een Thracischen koning in Daulis (Phocis) en had dezen eenzoon geschonken. Na eenigen tijd verlangde zij zeer, haar zusterPhilomela weer te zien; Tereus begaf zich naar Athene en wist Pandionte overreden, dat zijn dochter Philomela een korte poos bij haarzuster zou mogen vertoeven en daartoe met haar schoonbroeder Tereuszou medegaan. Deze, reeds dadelijk voor Philomela ontvlamd, bracht,in zijn land aangekomen, haar naar een eenzaam gelegen huis in eendicht bosch, deed haar geweld aan en sneed, toen zij in haar wanhoophem dreigde zijn schendige daad te zullen openbaar maken, haar de tonguit, opdat zij niets zou verraden; aan zijn vrouw, Procne, brachthij het valsche bericht van Philomela's dood. Na een jaar ongeveergelukte het Philomela, aan Procne haar lot te berichten; zij deed haarnamelijk een gewaad toekomen, waarin zij woorden geweven had, die hetgebeurde meldden. Procne maakte van een Bacchusfeest gebruik, om inhet bosch te zwerven, tot haar zuster door te dringen en deze mede tenemen naar haar paleis. Om op Tereus wraak te nemen, doodde Procne,door Philomela bijgestaan, haar zoon Itys, en zette dezen aan haarechtgenoot als spijze voor. Onder het maal verlangde hij zijn zoon Ityste zien; hierop meldde hem Procne, wat hij gegeten had; en onmiddellijkdaarna sprong Philomela te voorschijn, die hem Itys' bloedig hoofdtoonde. Toen hij nu de wegijlende zusters vervolgde, werden zij invogels veranderd, de eene in een nachtegaal, de ander in een zwaluw;Tereus zelf werd een hop.--Zoo verhaalt Ovidius in het zesde boekzijner Metamorphosen (reg. 484 en vgg.) de geschiedenis.--Shakespearegewaagt ook in zijn Cymbeline II. 2. 45 van Tereus en Philomela.II. 3. 62. _Act?on._ Deze was een kleinzoon van Cadmus, een beroemdeThebaansche held en een bedreven jager; hij werd op de jacht inhet gebergte Cith?ron door Diana in een hert veranderd en door zijnvijftig honden verscheurd. Ovidius' Metamorph. III. 131 en vgg.II. 3. 72. _Uw donkere Kimmeri?r._ De Kimmeri?rs der fabel bewoondeneen land, waar duisternis heerschte, de historische Kimmeri?rs deKrim. De Moor Aaron heet hier Kimmeri?r om zijn donkere kleur, nietom zijn afkomst.II. 3. 107. _Een giftige ief._ De Ief of Taxisboom,  vaak op kerkhovengeplant, wordt meermalen als verderflijk en onheilbrengend aangehaald;men zie: Koning Richard II, III. 2. 17. en Macbeth, IV. 1. 27.II. 3. 118. _Semiramis._ Semiramis, de koningin van het oude Assyrischerijk, wordt als een monster van wellust en wreedheid hier aangehaald.II. 3. 231. _Zoo bleek scheen eens op Pyramus de maan._ De geschiedenisvan Pyramus en Thisbe is mede in Ovidius' Metamorphosen, IV. 55 vgg. tevinden; zij speelt in Babylon. De ouders, die buren en vijanden waren,wilden van een huwelijk niets weten. De gelieven spraken door eenspleet in den gemeenschappelijken muur af, dat zij 's nachts ondereen moerbezieboom zouden samenkomen. Thisbe was het eerst op deafgesproken plaats, maar ontwaarde bij het maanlicht een leeuwin,die juist een rund verslonden had en aan een naburig beekje haardorst kwam lesschen, nam de vlucht in een grot, maar verloor daarbijhaar mantel, die door de leeuwin stukgereten en met bloed bezoedeldwerd, waarna het dier weder in het bosch terugkeerde. Een oogenbliklater komt Pyramus, ziet met schrik de sporen van het roofdier, vindtdaarna den bebloeden mantel en steekt zich dood; Thisbe keert weldraterug, om haar geliefde niet teleur te stellen, vindt zijn lijk endrijft zich zijn zwaard in de borst, mede onder den moerbezieboom,welks vruchten, overeenkomstig Thisbe's wensch, voortaan een donkerebloedkleur hebben, ter herinnering aan dit treurig voorval. Shakespeareheeft in den Midzomernachtdroom van deze geschiedenis een treffendgebruik gemaakt en ook den Maneschijn niet vergeten.II. 4. 51. _Gelijk voor Orpheus' voeten Cerberus._ In 't Engelsch _AsCerberus at the Thracian poet's feet_. Ook in den Midzomernachtdroom,V. 1. 49. wordt Orpheus eenvoudig als _the Thracian singer_aangeduid. Toen zijn geliefde vrouw, Eurydice, door den beet vaneen vergiftige slang gestorven was, daalde hij in de onderwereld afen wist door zijn zang en snarenspel de Godin der Schimmen zoo tebetooveren, dat hij zijn vrouw weder naar boven mocht medenemen; zijwaren reeds de bovenwereld nabij, toen hij, tegen het verbod in, naarhaar omzag, zoodat hij haar weder, en nu voor goed, verloor. Ovidius'Metamorph. X. 1. vgg.III. 1. 212. _Of wij ontglansen 't hemelwelf met zuchten._ Degedachte, dat uit zuchten wolken gevormd worden, vindt men meermalenbij Shakespeare uitgedrukt, b.v. Romeo en Julia, I. 1. 139.III. 1. 241. De tooneelaanwijzing "_Titus bezwijmt_" is door mijingevoegd, vgl. reg. 253.IV. 1. 12. _Cornelia las niet vlijtiger._ Cornelia, de moeder derGracchen, die als voortreffelijke opvoedster harer zonen bekend staat(zie Cicero in zijn Brutus, 58. 211). Verder wordt hier Cicero's boekover de welsprekendheid, _De oratore_, bedoeld.IV. 1. 20. _Dat Hecuba van Troje van kommer dol werd._ Zoo wordt Hecubaook in den Hamlet II. 2. 527. door een tooneelspeler voorgesteld;zie ook Cymbeline, IV. 2. 313.IV. 1. 28. _Ben ik geheel en gaarne tot uw dienst._ Om zijn vroegerwegloopen weer goed te maken, is de knaap vleiend beleefd jegensLavinia. In 't Engelsch: _I will most willingly attend your ladyship._IV. 1. 81. _Magni_ enz. Deze Latijnsche klacht, dat de beheerscherdes hemels zoo traag is in het hooren en zien van misdaden, is,eenigszins gewijzigd, uit Seneca's treurspel Hippolytus ontleend.IV. 1. 88. _Rome's Hector._ De Romeinsche Hector is de verbannenLucius, wiens hoop de jonge Lucius was, evenals Astyanax het wasvan den Trojaanschen Hector.--De gade der onteerde kuische vrouw wasLucretia's echtgenoot Collatinus; haar vader was Lucretius.IV. 2. 20. _Integer vitae_ enz. Daar de regels uit Horatius(Od. I. 22. 1.) zeggen, dat de reine en schuldelooze geen"Mauretaanschen" pijl en boog, met andere woorden, geen wapenenbehoeft, is door de toezending van wapenen uitgedrukt, dat Tamora'szonen niet rein en schuldeloos zijn. Als de slimme Tamora niet juistdoor de zwangerschap onwel was, zou haar de schranderheid van den vondtoelachen. Men merke op, dat het adjectivische _Mauris_ van Horatiushier in _Mauri_, "van den Moor", veranderd is.IV. 2. 52. _Waar Aaron is, de Moor, doch ras!_ Men kan 't laatste ooklezen: "Moord! och ras!" waarop dan Aarons zeggen: "moord en brand"slaat. In 't Engelsch is de woordspeling tusschen _Moor_ en _more_.IV. 2. 93. _Niet Enceladus._ Een der Giganten, die met rotsblokkenden hemel bestormden; ook Typhon was een monster, dat bij den strijdtegen den oppergod zich geducht maakte. Alcides is Hercules.IV. 2. 126. _Van den zeek'ren kant._ Van moeders zij.IV. 3. 4. _Terras Astr?a reliquit._ Aanhaling uit Ovidius'Metamorphosen I. 150. De Godin der Gerechtigheid, als hemelbewoonster_Astroea_ genoemd, woonde in de gouden eeuw op aarde, maar "verlietde aarde" in de koperen eeuw, het laatst van alle hemellingen.--Mendenke zich het plein, waar dit derde tooneel speelt, in de nabijheidvan het keizerlijk paleis.IV. 3. 80. _De galgemaker?_ In het Engelsch verstaat de Boer dennaam van Jupiter "Gibbeter", en vraagt daarom, of de "Gibbetmaker"bedoeld is; een natuurlijk niet terug te geven woordspeling.IV. 3. 90. _Met eenige gratie._ In het Engelsch is hier eenwoordspeling tusschen _grace_, "gratie", en _grace_, "gebed bij't eten". De boer zegt, dat hij 't laatste nooit heeft kunnen leeren.V. 1. 122. _Naar 't spreekwoord zegt._ Het spreekwoord is: _to blushlike a black dog_.V. 1. 145. _Omlaag weer met dien duivel._ Aaron heeft dus gesprokenvan de ladder af, die hij reeds bestegen had om gehangen te worden.V. 2. 56. _Hyperion._ Helios, de Zonnegod.V. 2. 204. _En bloediger dan der Centauren feest._ In OvidiusMetamorph. XII. 210 kon Shakespeare de beschrijving vinden van dengruwelijken strijd, die, op de bruiloft van Pirithous tusschen deLapithen, tot wier volk de bruid behoorde, en de mede-uitgenoodigdeCentauren ontstond, en met de nederlaag der laatsten eindigde.V. 3. 36. _Virginius._ De vergelijking gaat eigenlijk niet door,want Virginius doodde zijn dochter om haar onteering te voorkomen.V. 3. 80. _Als onze stamheer eens._ Ook in Julius C?sar noemtShakespeare ?neas den stamheer der Romeinen.--In de ?neis van Vergilius(IIde Boek) verhaalt ?neas aan Dido de overrompeling van Troje door deGrieken, en vermeldt, hoe de Griek Sinon (Ald. reg. 79) de Trojanenoverhaalde het verderfelijke paard binnen hun muren te halen. Ookin 3 Hendrik VI, III. 2. 190. en in Cymbeline III. 4. 61 wordt Sinonvermeld; evenzoo in Lucretia 1521.NOOTEN[1] Blijkbaar waren Ovidius' Metamorphosen aan Sh. goed bekend;niet alleen de Titus Andronicus, maar verscheiden stukken van hemkunnen het getuigen. Ook andere gedichten van Ovidius, de _Amores_(zie het Motto van Venus en Adonis) en de _Heroides_, (zie 3Hendrik VI, I. 3. 48) waren hem niet vreemd. De Metamorphosen(Gedaanteverwisselingen of Herscheppingen) waren reeds in Sh.'stijd door Golding in het Engelsch vertaald. Dat Sh. deze vertalingkende, is wel aan te nemen; maar hij kan Ovidius zeer wel in hetoorspronkelijke gelezen hebben; hij had op de school te StratfordLatijn geleerd en naar allen schijn met vrucht.--In de Bodley'schebibliotheek te Oxford berust een kleine uitgave der Metamorphosen:"Ovidii Metamorphoseon Libri quindecim", gedrukt bij Aldus in Veneti?,in October 1502; op den titel staat geschreven: Wm. Shr. en op hetschutblad de vermelding, geschreven in 1682 door T. N. (Nash?), dat hijdit kleine boek gekregen had van "W. Hall, die zeide, dat het eens aanWill. Shakspere had toebehoord." Er is geen beslissende reden om deechtheid der schrifturen te betwisten of te betwijfelen; de verkortenaamteekening op den titel kan zeer wel van onzen dichter zelf zijn.[2] Met deze woorden begint Dr. W. J. A. Jonckbloet in zijne_Geschiedenis der Nederl. Letterkunde_ (Tweede druk, II. blz. 165)zijn hoofdstuk over Jan Vos.[3] Wie, zonder het stuk van Jan Vos geheel te doorworstelen, er eengoed denkbeeld van wil krijgen, leze de voorlezing: "Shakespeare'sinvloed op het Nederlandsen tooneel der zeventiende eeuw", vanProf. Moltzer (1874), die ook duidelijk in het licht gesteld heeft,dat Vos den Titus Andronicus door de vertooningen der Engelschekomedianten heeft leeren kennen.[4] De cijfers aan het hoofd der bladzijden zijn dezelfde, waarmedein de uitmuntende, door de uitgevers van den "Cambridge Shakespeare"bezorgde, en weinig kostbare _Globe Edition: The works of WilliamShakespeare_ (London, Macmillan and Co.), de eerste regel der bladzijdeis aangewezen. Genoemde uitgave wordt tegenwoordig vrij algemeen bijaanhalingen gebezigd. Daar niet dan uiterst zelden de Nederlandschevertaling een versregel meer bevat dan het oorspronkelijke, konde nommering overgenomen worden, waardoor zoowel vergelijking methet oorspronkelijke, als het doen van aanhalingen of verwijzingengemakkelijker worden.[5] Een merkwaardig staaltje levert Marlowe in de eerste alleenspraakvan Faustus in "The tragical History of Doctor Faustus." Er komenverscheiden Latijnsche gezegden in voor en de Philosophie wordt inde eerste uitgave er (I. 1. 12) aangeduid met _Oncoemion_, dat doorde latere uitgevers, die 't woord niet verstonden, veranderd is in_Economy_; het woord is gebleken gemaakt te zijn uit de Griekschewoorden "on kai m? on", "zijnde en niet zijnde", zoodat Faustus zegt:"Vaarwel, zijn-en-niet-zijn"!End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Titus Andronicus, by William Shakespeare*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TITUS ANDRONICUS ******** This file should be named 23676-8.txt or 23676-8.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/6/7/23676/Produced by Jeroen Hellingman and the Online DistributedProofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net/Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of War, by Pierre LotiThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: WarAuthor: Pierre LotiTranslator: Marjorie LaurieRelease Date: February 8, 2011 [EBook #35211]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ISO-8859-1*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAR ***Produced by Barbara Kosker and the Online DistributedProofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file wasproduced from images generously made available by TheInternet Archive/American Libraries.) WAR WAR BY PIERRE LOTI TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY MARJORIE LAURIE [Illustration] PHILADELPHIA AND LONDON J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY 1917 COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY _Printed by J. B. Lippincott Company The Washington Square Press, Philadelphia, U. S. A._ TO MY FRIEND LOUIS BARTHOU, P.L.CONTENTS                                                          PAGE     I. A LETTER TO THE MINISTER OF MARINE                   9    II. TWO POOR LITTLE NESTLINGS OF BELGIUM                12   III. A GAY LITTLE SCENE AT THE BATTLE FRONT              18    IV. LETTER TO ENVER PASHA                               28     V. ANOTHER SCENE AT THE BATTLE FRONT                   34    VI. THE PHANTOM BASILICA                                53   VII. THE FLAG WHICH OUR NAVAL BRIGADE DO NOT YET        POSSESS                                             68  VIII. TAHITI AND THE SAVAGES WITH PINK SKINS LIKE        BOILED PIG                                          80    IX. A LITTLE HUSSAR                                     85     X. AN EVENING AT YPRES                                 95    XI. AT THE GENERAL HEADQUARTERS OF THE BELGIAN ARMY    111   XII. SOME WORDS UTTERED BY HER MAJESTY, THE QUEEN OF        THE BELGIANS                                       127  XIII. AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF THE SERIOUSLY WOUNDED IN        THE EAST                                           139   XIV. SERBIA IN THE BALKAN WAR                           148    XV. ABOVE ALL LET US NEVER FORGET!                     151   XVI. THE INN OF THE GOOD SAMARITAN                      157  XVII. FOR THE RESCUE OF OUR WOUNDED                      174 XVIII. AT RHEIMS                                          177   XIX. THE DEATH-BEARING GAS                              192    XX. ALL-SOULS' DAY WITH THE ARMIES AT THE FRONT        205   XXI. THE CROSS OF HONOUR FOR THE FLAG OF THE        NAVAL BRIGADE                                      211  XXII. THE ABSENT-MINDED PILGRIM                          219 XXIII. THE FIRST SUNSHINE OF MARCH                        242  XXIV. AT SOISSONS                                        265   XXV. THE TWO GORGON HEADS                               299WARIA LETTER TO THE MINISTER OF MARINECAPTAIN J. VIAUD OF THE NAVAL RESERVE, TO THE MINISTER OFMARINE. _Rochefort, August 18th, 1914._SIR,When I was recalled to active service on the outbreak of war I had hopesof performing some duty less insignificant than that which was assignedto me in our dock-yards.Believe me, I have no reproaches to make, for I am very well aware thatthe Navy will not fill the principal r?le in this war, and that all mycomrades of the same rank are likewise destined to almost completeinaction for mere lack of opportunity, like myself doomed, alas! to seetheir energies sapped, their spirits in torment.But let me invoke the other name I bear. The average man is not as arule well versed in Naval Regulations. Will it not, then, be a badexample in our dear country, where everyone is doing his duty sosplendidly, if Pierre Loti is to serve no useful end? The exercise oftwo professions places me as an officer in a somewhat exceptionalposition, does it not? Forgive me then for soliciting a degree ofexceptional and indulgent treatment. I should accept with joy, withpride, any position whatsoever that would bring me nearer to thefighting-line, even if it were a very subordinate post, one much belowthe dignity of my five rows of gold braid.Or, on the other hand, in the last resort, could I not be appointed asupernumerary on special duty on some ship which might have a chance ofseeing real fighting? I assure you that I should find some means ofmaking myself useful there. Or, finally, if there are too many rules andregulations in the way, would you grant me, sir, while waiting until myservices may be required by the Fleet, liberty to come and go, so that Imay try to find some kind of employment, even if it be only ambulancework? My lot is hard, and no one will understand that the mere fact thatI am a captain in the Naval Reserve dooms me to almost completeinaction, while all France is in arms. (_Signed_) JULIEN VIAUD. (PIERRE LOTI.)IITWO POOR LITTLE NESTLINGS OF BELGIUM _August, 1914._One evening a train full of Belgian refugees had just entered therailway station of one of our southern towns. Worn out and dazed, thepoor martyrs stepped down slowly, one by one, on to the unfamiliarplatform where Frenchmen were waiting to welcome them. Carrying withthem a few articles of clothing, caught up at haphazard, they hadclimbed up into the coaches without so much as asking themselves whatwas their destination. They had taken refuge there in hurried flight,desperate flight from horror and death, from fire, mutilationsunspeakable and Sadic outrages--such things, deemed no longer possibleon earth, had been brooding still, it seemed, in the depths ofpietistic German brains, and, like an ultimate spewing forth of primevalbarbarities, had burst suddenly upon their country and upon our own.Village, hearth, family--nothing remained to them; without purpose, likewaifs and strays, they had drifted there, and in the eyes of all layhorror and anguish. Among them were many children, little girls, whoseparents were lost in the midst of conflagrations or battles; agedgrandmothers, too, now alone in the world, who had fled, scarce knowingwhy, clinging no longer to life, yet urged on by some obscure instinctof self-preservation. The faces of these aged women expressed noemotion, not even despair; it seemed as if their souls had actuallyabandoned their bodies and reason their brains.Lost in that mournful throng were two quite young children, holding eachother tightly by the hand, two little boys, evidently two littlebrothers. The elder, five years of age perhaps, was protecting theyounger, whose age may have been three. No one claimed them; no one knewthem. When they found themselves alone, how was it that they understoodthat if they would escape death they, too, must climb into that train?Their clothes were neat, and they wore warm little woollen stockings.Evidently they belonged to humble but careful parents. Doubtless theywere the sons of one of those glorious soldiers of Belgium who fell likeheroes upon the field of honour--sons of a father who, in the moment ofdeath, must needs have bestowed upon them one last and tender thought.So overwhelmed were they with weariness and want of sleep that they didnot even cry. Scarcely could they stand upright. They could not answerthe questions that were put to them, but above all they refused to letgo of each other; that they would not do. At last the big, elderbrother, still gripping the other's hand for fear of losing him,realised the responsibilities of his character of protector; he summonedup strength to speak to the lady with the brassard, who was bending downto him."Madame," he said, in a very small, beseeching voice, alreadyhalf-asleep, "Madame, is anyone going to put us to bed?"For the moment this was the only wish they were capable of forming; allthat they looked for from the mercy of mankind was that someone would beso good as to put them to bed. They were soon put to bed, together, youmay be sure, and they went to sleep at once, still holding hands andnestling close to each other, both sinking in the same instant into thepeaceful oblivion of children's slumbers.One day long ago, in the China Seas during the war, two bewilderedlittle birds, two tiny little birds, smaller even than our wren, hadmade their way, I know not how, on board our iron-clad and into ouradmiral's quarters. No one, to be sure, had sought to frighten them, andall day long they had fluttered about from side to side, perching oncornices or on green plants. By nightfall I had forgotten them, when theadmiral sent for me. It was to show me, with emotion, his two littlevisitors; they had gone to sleep in his room, perched on one leg upon asilken cord fastened above his bed. Like two little balls of feathers,touching and almost mingling in one, they slept close, very closetogether, without the slightest fear, as if very sure of our pity.And these poor little Belgian children, sleeping side by side, made methink of those two nestlings, astray in the midst of the China Seas.Theirs, too, was the same trust; theirs the same innocent slumber. Butthese children were to be protected with a far more tender solicitude.IIIA GAY LITTLE SCENE AT THE BATTLE FRONT _October, 1914._At about eleven o'clock in the morning of that day I arrived at avillage--its name I have, let us say, forgotten. My companion was anEnglish commandant, whom the fortunes of war had given me for comradesince the previous evening. Our path was lighted by that great andgenial magician, the sun--a radiant sun, a holiday sun, transfiguringand beautifying all things. This occurred in a department in the extremenorth of France, which one it was I have never known, but the weatherwas so fine that we might have imagined ourselves in Provence.For nearly two hours our way lay hemmed in between two columns ofsoldiers, marching in opposite directions. On our right were the Englishgoing into action, very clean, very fresh, with an air of satisfactionand in high spirits. They were admirably equipped and their horses inthe pink of condition. On our left were French Artillerymen coming backfrom the Titanic battle to enjoy a little rest. The latter were coatedwith dust, and some wore bandages round arm and forehead, but they stillpreserved their gaiety of countenance and the aspect of healthy men, andthey marched in sections in good order. They were actually bringing backquantities of empty cartridge cases, which they had found time tocollect, a sure proof that they had withdrawn from the scene of actionat their leisure, unhurried and unafraid--victorious soldiers to whomtheir chiefs had prescribed a few days' respite. In the distance weheard a noise like a thunderstorm, muffled at first, to which we weredrawing nearer and yet nearer. Peasants were working in the adjoiningfields as if nothing unusual were happening, and yet they were not surethat the savages, who were responsible for such tumult yonder, would notcome back one of these days and pillage everything. Here and there inthe meadows, on the grass, sat groups of fugitives, clustered aroundlittle wood fires. The scene would have been dismal enough on a gloomyday, but the sun managed to shed a cheerful light upon it. They cookedtheir meals in gipsy fashion, surrounded by bundles in which they hadhurriedly packed together their scanty clothing in the terrible rush forsafety.Our motor car was filled with packets of cigarettes and with newspapers,which kind souls had commissioned us to carry to the men in thefiring-line, and so slow was our progress, so closely were we hemmed inby the two columns of soldiers, that we were able to distribute ourgifts through the doors of the car, to the English on our right, to theFrench on our left. They stretched out their hands to catch them inmid-air, and thanked us with a smile and a quick salute.There were also villagers who travelled along that overcrowded roadmingling in confusion with the soldiers. I remember a very pretty youngpeasant woman, who was dragging along by a string, in the midst of theEnglish transport wagons, a little go-cart with two sleeping babies. Shewas toiling along, for the gradient just there was steep. A handsomeScotch sergeant, with a golden moustache, who sat on the back of thenearest wagon smoking a cigarette and dangling his legs, beckoned toher."Give me the end of your string."She understood and accepted his offer with a smile of pretty confusion.The Scotchman wound the fragile tow-rope round his left arm, keeping hisright arm free so that he might go on smoking. So it was really he whobrought along these two babies of France, while the heavy transportlorry drew their little cart like a feather.When we entered the village, the sun shone with increasing splendour.Such chaos, such confusion prevailed there as had never been seenbefore, and after this war, unparalleled in history, will never again bewitnessed. Uniforms of every description, weapons of every sort, Scots,French cuirassiers, Turcos, Zouaves, Bedouins, whose burnouses swungupwards with a noble gesture as they saluted. The church square wasblocked with huge English motor-omnibuses that had once been a means ofcommunication in the streets of London, and still displayed in largeletters the names of certain districts of that city. I shall be accusedof exaggeration, but it is a fact that these omnibuses wore a look ofastonishment at finding themselves rolling along, packed with soldiers,over the soil of France.All these people, mingled together in confusion, were makingpreparations for luncheon. Those savages yonder (who might perhapsarrive here on the morrow--who could say?) still conducted their greatsymphony, their incessant cannonade, but no one paid any attention toit. Who, moreover, could be uneasy in such beautiful surroundings, suchsurprising autumn sunshine, while roses still grew on the walls, andmany-coloured dahlias in gardens that the white frost had scarcelytouched? Everyone settled down to the meal and made the best of things.You would have thought you were looking at a festival, a somewhatincongruous and unusual festival, to be sure, improvised in the vicinityof some tower of Babel. Girls wandered about among the groups; littlefair-haired children gave away fruit they had gathered in their ownorchards. Scotsmen in shirt-sleeves were persuaded that the country theywere in was warm by comparison with their own. Priests and Red Crosssisters were finding seats for the wounded on packing-cases. One goodold sister, with a face like parchment, and frank, pretty eyes under hermob-cap, took infinite pains to make a Zouave comfortable, whose armswere both wrapped in bandages. Doubtless she would presently feed him asif he were a little child.We ourselves, the Englishman and I, were very hungry, so we made our wayto the pleasant-looking inn, where officers were already seated at tablewith soldiers of lower rank. (In these times of torment in which welive hierarchal barriers no longer exist.)"I could certainly give you roast beef and rabbit _saut?_," said theinnkeeper, "but as for bread, no indeed! it is not to be had; you cannotbuy bread anywhere at any price.""Ah!" said my comrade, the English commandant, "and what about thoseexcellent loaves over there standing up against the door?""Oh, those loaves belong to a general who sent them here, because he iscoming to luncheon with his aides-de-camp."Hardly had he turned his back when my companion hastily drew a knifefrom his pocket, sliced off the end of one of those golden loaves, andhid it under his coat."We have found some bread," he said calmly to the innkeeper, "so you canbring luncheon."So, seated beside an Arab officer of _la Grande Tente_, dressed in ared burnous, we luncheon gaily with our guests, the soldier-chauffeursof our motor car.When we left the inn to continue our journey the festival of the sun wasat its height; it cast a glad light upon that ill-assorted throng andthe strange motor-omnibuses. A convoy of German prisoners was crossingthe square; bestial and sly of countenance they marched between our ownsoldiers, who kept time infinitely better than they; scarcely a glancewas thrown at them.The old nun I spoke of, so old and so pure-eyed, was helping her Zouaveto smoke a cigarette, holding it to his lips rather awkwardly withtrembling, grandmotherly solicitude. At the same time she seemed to betelling him some quite amusing stories--with the innocent, ingenuousmerriment of which good nuns have the secret--for they were bothlaughing. Who can say what little childish tale it may have been? Anold parish priest, who was smoking his pipe near them--without anyparticular refinement, I am bound to admit--laughed, too, to see themlaugh. And just as we were going into our car to continue our journey tothose regions of horror where the cannon were thundering, a little girlof twelve ran and plucked a sheaf of autumn asters from her garden todeck us with flowers.What good people there are still in the world! And how greatly has theaggression of German savages reinforced those tender bonds ofbrotherhood that unite all who are truly of the human species.IVLETTER TO ENVER PASHA _Rochefort, September 4th, 1914._ MY DEAR AND GREAT FRIEND,Forgive my letter for the sake of my affection and admiration foryourself and of my regard for your country, which to some extent I havemade my own. In the country round Tripoli you played the part ofsplendid hero, without fear and without reproach, holding your own, tenmen against a thousand. In Thrace it was you who recovered Adrianoplefor Turkey, and this feat, the recapture of that town of heroes, youeffected almost without bloodshed. Everywhere, with the violencenecessitated by the circumstances, you suppressed cruelty andbrigandage. I witnessed your indignation against the atrocities of theBulgarians, and you yourself desired me to visit, in your service motorcar, the ruins of those villages through which the assassins had passed.Well, I will tell you a fact of which you are doubtless yet ignorant: InBelgium, in France, and moreover _by order_, the Germans are committingthese same abominations which the Bulgarians committed in your country,and they are a thousand times more detestable still, for the Bulgarianswere primitive mountaineers under the influence of fanaticism, whereasthese others are civilised. Civilised? So fundamental is their brutalitythat culture has no grasp of their souls and nothing can be expected ofthem.Turkey to-day desires to win back her islands; this point no one who isnot blinded with prejudice can fail to understand. But I tremble lestshe should go too far in this war. Alas! well do I divine the pressurethat is brought to bear upon your dear country and yourself by thatexecrable being, the incarnation of all the vices of the Prussian race,ferocity, arrogance, and trickery. Doubtless he has seen good to takeadvantage of your fine and ardent patriotism, luring you on withillusive promises of revenge. Beware of his lies! Assuredly he hascontrived to keep truth from reaching you, else would he have alienatedyour loyal soldier's heart. Even as he has convinced a section of hisown people, so he has known how to persuade you that these butcherieswere forced upon him. It is not so; they were planned long ago withdevilish cynicism. He has succeeded in inspiring you with faith in hisvictories, though he knows, as to-day the whole world knows, that in theend the triumph will rest with us. And even if by some impossible chancewe were to succumb for a time, nevertheless would Prussia and herdynasty of tigerish brutes remain nailed fast forever to the mostshameful pillory in all the history of mankind.How deeply should I suffer were I to see our dear Turkey, by thiswretch, hurl herself in his train into a terrible venture. More painfulstill were it to witness her dishonour, should she associate herselfwith these ultimate barbarians in their attack upon civilisation. Oh,could you but know with what infinite loathing the whole world looksupon the Prussian race!Alas! you owe no debt to France, that I know only too well. We lent ourauthority to Italy's attempt upon Tripoli. Later, in the beginning ofthe Balkan War, we forgot the age-long hospitality so generously offeredto us Frenchmen, to our seminaries, to our culture, to our language,which you have almost made your own. In thoughtlessness and ignorance wesided with your neighbours, from whom our nation received naught butill-will and persecution. We initiated against you a campaign ofcalumny, and only too late we have acknowledged its injustice. TheGermans, on the other hand, were alone in affording you a little--oh, avery little!--encouragement. But even so, it is not worth yourcommitting suicide for their sakes. Moreover, you see, in this veryhour, these people are succeeding in putting themselves outside the paleof humanity. To march in their company would become not only a danger,but a degradation.Your influence over your country is fully justified; may you hold herback on that fatal decline to which she seems committed. My letter willbe long on the way, but when it arrives your eyes may perhaps be alreadyopened, despite the web of lies in which Germany has entrammelled you.Forgive me if I wish to be of the number of those by whose means somehint of the truth may reach you.I maintain an unwavering faith in our final triumph, but on the day ofour deliverance how would my joy be veiled in mourning if my secondcountry, my country of the Orient, were to bury itself under the d?brisof the hideous Empire of Prussia.VANOTHER SCENE AT THE BATTLE FRONT _October, 1914._Whereabouts, you may ask, did this come to pass? Well, it is one of thepeculiarities of this war, that in spite of my familiarity with maps,and notwithstanding the excellence in detail of the plans which I carryabout with me, I never know where I am. At any rate this certainlyhappened somewhere. I have, moreover, a sad conviction that it happenedin France. I should so much have preferred it to have happened inGermany, for it was close up to the enemy's lines, under fire of theirguns.I had travelled by motor car since morning, and had passed through moretowns, large and small, than I can count. I remember one scene in avillage where I halted, a village which had certainly never before seenmotor-omnibuses or throngs of soldiers and horses. Some fifty Germanprisoners were brought in. They were unshaven, unshorn, and highlyunprepossessing. I will not flatter them by saying that they looked likesavages, for true savages in the bush are seldom lacking either indistinction or grace of bearing. Such air as these Germans had was ablackguard air of doltish ugliness--dull, gross, incurable.A pretty girl of somewhat doubtful character, with feathers in her hat,who had taken up a position there to watch them go past, stared at themwith ill-concealed resentment."Oh indeed, is it with freaks like those that their dirty Kaiser invitesus to breed for beauty? God's truth!" and she clinched her unfinishedphrase by spitting on the ground.For the next hour or two I passed through a deserted countryside, woodsin autumn colouring and leafless forests which seemed interminable undera gloomy sky. It was cold, with that bitter, penetrating chill which wehardly know in my home in south-west France, and which seemedcharacteristic of northern lands.From time to time a village through which the barbarians had passeddisplayed to us its ruins, charred and blackened by fire. Here and thereby the wayside lay little grave-mounds, either singly or groupedtogether--mounds lately dug; a few leaves had been scattered above themand a cross made of two sticks. Soldiers, their names now for everforgotten, had fallen there exhausted and had breathed their last withnone to help them.We scarcely noticed them, for we raced along with ever-increasingspeed, because the night of late October was already closing rapidly inupon us. As the day advanced a mist almost wintry in character thickenedaround us like a shroud. Silence pervaded with still deeper melancholyall that countryside, which, although the barbarians had been expelledfrom it, still had memories of all those butcheries, ravings, outcries,and conflagrations.In the midst of a forest, near a hamlet, of which nothing remained savefragments of calcined walls, there were two graves lying side by side.Near these I halted to look at a little girl of twelve years, quitealone there, arranging bunches of flowers sprinkled with water, somepoor chrysanthemums from her ruined plot of garden, some wild flowerstoo, the last scabious of the season, gathered in that place ofmourning."Were they friends of yours, my child, those two who are sleepingthere?""Oh no, sir, but I know that they were Frenchmen; I saw them beingburied. They were young, sir, and their moustaches were scarcely grown."There was no inscription on these crosses, soon to be blown down bywinter winds and to crumble away in the grass. Who were they? Sons ofpeasants, of simple citizens, of aristocrats? Who weeps for them? Is ita mother in skilfully fashioned draperies of crape? Is it a mother inthe homely weeds of a peasant woman? Whichever it be, those who lovedthem will live and die without ever knowing that they lie moulderingthere by the side of a lonely road on the northern boundary of France;without ever knowing that this kind little girl, whose own home laydesolate, brought them an offering of flowers one autumn evening, whilewith the advent of night a bitter cold was descending upon the forestwhich wrapped them round.Farther on I came to a village, the headquarters of a general officer incommand of an army corps. Here an officer joined me in my motor car, whoundertook to guide me to one particular point of the vast battle front.We drove on rapidly for another hour through a country withoutinhabitants. In the meantime we passed one of these long convoys of whatwere once motor-omnibuses in Paris, but have been converted since thewar into slaughter-houses on wheels. Townspeople, men and women, satthere once, where now sides of beef, all red and raw, swing suspendedfrom hooks. If we did not know that in those fields yonder there werehundreds of thousands of men to be fed we might well ask why such thingswere being carted in the midst of this deserted country through whichwe are hastening at top speed.The day is waning rapidly, and a continuous rumbling of a storm beginsto make itself heard, unchained seemingly on a level with the earth. Forweeks now this same storm has thundered away without pause along asinuous line stretching across France from east to west, a line on whichdaily, alas! new heaps of dead are piled up."Here we are," said my guide.If I were not already familiar with the new characteristics wherewiththe Germans have endued a battle front, I should believe, in spite ofthe incessant cannonade, that he had made a mistake, for at first sightthere is no sign either of army or of soldiers. We are in a place ofsinister aspect, a vast plain; the greyish ground is stripped of itsturf and torn up; trees here and there are shattered more or lesscompletely, as if by some cataclysm of thunderbolts or hailstones. Thereis no trace of human existence, not even the ruins of a village; nothingcharacteristic of any period, either of historical or even of geologicaldevelopment. Gazing into the distance at the far-flung forest skylinefading on all sides into the darkening mists of twilight, we might wellbelieve ourselves to have reverted to a prehistoric epoch of the world'shistory."Here we are."That means that it is time to hide our motor car under some trees or itwill attract a rain of shells and endanger the lives of our chauffeurs,for in that misty forest opposite there are many wicked eyes watching usthrough wonderful binoculars, by whose aid they are as keen of sight asgreat birds of prey. To reach the firing-line, then, it is incumbent onus to proceed on foot.How strange the ground looks! It is riddled with shell-holes,resembling enormous craters; in another place it is scarred and piercedand sown with pointed bullets, copper cartridge-cases, fragments ofspiked helmets, and barbarian filth of other sorts. But in spite of itsdeserted appearance, this region is nevertheless thickly populated, onlythe inhabitants are no doubt troglodytes, for their dwellings, scatteredabout and invisible at first sight, are a kind of cave or molehill, halfcovered with branches and leaves. I had seen the same kind ofarchitecture once upon a time on Easter Island, and the sight of thesedwellings of men in this scenery of primeval forest completes ourearlier impression of having leapt backwards into the abyss of time.Of a truth, to force upon us such a reversion was a right Prussianartifice. War, which was once a gallant affair of parades in thesunshine, of beautiful uniforms and of music, war they have rendered amean and ugly thing. They wage it like burrowing beasts, and obviouslythere was nothing left for us but to imitate them.In the meantime here and there heads look out from the excavations tosee who is coming. There is nothing prehistoric about these heads, anymore than there is about the service-caps they are wearing; these arethe faces of our own soldiers, with an air of health and good humour andof amusement at having to live there like rabbits. A sergeant comes upto us; he is as earthy as a mole that has not had time to clean itself,but he has a merry look of youth and gaiety."Take two or three men with you," I say to him, "and go and unpack mymotor car, down there behind the trees. You will find a thousand packetsof cigarettes and some picture-papers which some people in Paris havesent you to help to pass the time in the trenches."What a pity that I cannot take back and show, as a thanksgiving to thekind donors, the smiles of satisfaction with which their gifts werewelcomed.Another mile or two have still to be covered on foot before we reach thefiring-line. An icy wind blows from the forests opposite that are yetmore deeply drowned in black mists, forests in the enemy's hands, wherethe counterfeit thunderstorm is grumbling. This plain with its miserablemolehills is a dismal place in the twilight, and I marvel that they canbe so gay, these dear soldiers of ours, in the midst of the desolationsurrounding them.I cross this piece of ground, riddled with holes; the tempest of shothas spared here and there a tuft of grass, a little moss, a poor flower.The first place I reach is a line of defence in course of construction,which will be the second line of defence, to meet the improbable eventof the first line, which lies farther ahead, having to be abandoned. Oursoldiers are working like navvies with shovels and picks in their hands.They are all resolute and happy, anxious to finish their work, and itwill be formidable indeed, surrounded as it is with most deadlyambushes. It was the Germans, I admit, whose scheming, evil brainsdevised this whole system of galleries and snares; but we, more subtleand alert than they, have, in a few days, equalled them, if we have notbeaten them, at their own game.A mile farther on is the first line. It is full of soldiers, for this isthe trench that must withstand the shock of the barbarians' onset; dayand night it is always ready to bristle with rifles, and they who holdthe trench, gone to earth scarcely for a moment, know that they mayexpect at any minute the daily shower of shells. Then heads, rash enoughto show themselves above the parapet, will be shot away, breastsshattered, entrails torn. They know, too, that they must be prepared toencounter at any unforeseen hour, in the pale sunlight or in theblackness of midnight, onslaughts of those barbarians with whom theforest opposite still swarms. They know how they will come on at a run,with shouts intended to terrify them, linked arm in arm into oneinfuriated mass, and how they will find means, as ever, to do much harmbefore death overtakes them entangled in our barbed wire. All this theyknow, for they have already seen it, but nevertheless they smile aserious, dignified smile. They have been nearly a week in this trench,waiting to be relieved, and they make no complaints."We are well fed," they say, "we eat when we are hungry. As long as itdoes not rain we keep ourselves warm at night in our fox-holes with goodthick blankets. But not all of us yet have woollen underclothing for thewinter, and we shall need it soon. When you go back to Paris, Colonel,perhaps you will be so kind as to bring this to the notice of Governmentand of all the ladies too, who are working for us."("Colonel"--the soldiers have no other title for officers with five rowsof gold braid. On the last expedition to China I had already been calledcolonel, but I did not expect, alas! that I should be called so againduring a war on the soil of France.)These men who are talking to me at the edge of, or actually in, thetrench belong to the most diverse social grades. Some were leisureddandies, some artisans, some day labourers, and there are even some whowear their caps at too rakish an angle and whose language smacks of thering, into whose past it is better not to pry too curiously. Yet theyhave become not only good soldiers, but good men, for this war, while ithas drawn us closer together, has at the same time purified us andennobled us. This benefit at least the Germans will, involuntarily, havebestowed upon us, and indeed it is worth the trouble. Moreover oursoldiers all know to-day why they are fighting, and therein lies theirsupreme strength. Their indignation will inspire them till their latestbreath."When you have seen," said two young Breton peasants to me, "when youhave seen with your own eyes what these brutes do in the villages theypass through, it is natural, is it not, to give your life to try toprevent them from doing as much in your own home?"The cannonade roared an accompaniment in its deep, unceasing bass tothis ingenuous statement.Now this is the spirit that prevails inexhaustibly from one end of thefighting-line to the other. Everywhere there is the same determinationand courage. Whether here or there, a talk with any of these soldiers isequally reassuring, and calls forth the same admiration.But it is strange to reflect that in this twentieth century of ours, inorder to protect ourselves from barbarism and horror, we have had toestablish trenches such as these, in double and treble lines, crossingour dear country from east to west along an unbroken front of hundredsof miles, like a kind of Great Wall of China. But a hundred times moreformidable than the original wall, the defence of the Mongolians, isthis wall of ours, a wall practically subterranean, which winds alongstealthily, manned by all the heroic youth of France, ever on thealert, ever in the midst of bloodshed.The twilight this evening, under the sullen sky, lingers sadly, and willnot come to an end. It appeared to me to begin two hours ago, and yet itis still light enough to see. Before us, distinguishable as yet to sightor imagination, lie two sections of a forest, unfolding itself beyondrange of vision, the contours of its more distant section almost lost indarkness. Colder still grows the wind, and my heart contracts with thestill more painful impression of a backward plunge, without shelter andwithout refuge, into primeval barbarism."Every evening at this hour, Colonel, for the last week, we have had ourlittle shower of shells. If you have time to stay a short while you willsee how quickly they fire and almost without aiming."As for time, well, I have really hardly any to spare, and, besides, Ihave had other opportunities of observing how quickly they fire "almostwithout aiming." Sometimes it might be mistaken for a display offireworks, and it is to be supposed that they have more projectiles thanthey know what to do with. Nevertheless I shall be delighted to stay afew minutes longer and to witness the performance again in theircompany.Ah! to be sure, a kind of whirring in the air like the flight ofpartridges--partridges travelling along very fast on metal wings. Thisis a change for us from the muffled voice of the cannonade we heard justbefore; it is now beginning to come in our direction. But it is much toohigh and much too far to the left--so much too far to the left that theysurely cannot be aiming at us; they cannot be quite so stupid.Nevertheless we stop talking and listen with our ears pricked--a dozenshells, and then no more."They have finished," the men tell me then; "their hour is over now,and it was for our comrades down there. You have no luck, Colonel; thisis the very first time that it was not we who caught it, and, besides,you would think they were tired this evening, the Boches."It is dark and I ought to be far away. Moreover, they are all going tosleep, for obviously they cannot risk showing a light; cigarettes arethe limit of indulgence. I shake hands with a whole line of soldiers andleave them asleep, poor children of France, in their dormitory, which inthe silence and darkness has grown as dismal as a long, common grave ina cemetery.VITHE PHANTOM BASILICA _October, 1914._To gaze upon her, our legendary and wonderful basilica of France, to bidher a last farewell before she should crumble away to her inevitabledownfall, I had ordered a _d?tour_ of two hours in my service motor carat the end of some special duty from which I was returning.The October morning was misty and cold. The hillsides of Champagne weredeserted that day, and their vineyards with dark brown leaves, wet withrain, seemed to be wrapped completely in a kind of shining fleece. Wehad also passed through a forest, keeping our eyes open and our weaponsready in case of a meeting with Uhlan marauders.At last, far away in the fog, uplifting all its great height above asprinkling of reddish squares, doubtless the roofs of houses, we saw theform of a mighty church. This was evidently the basilica.At the entrance to Rheims there are defences of all kinds: stonebarriers, trenches, _chevaux de frise_, sentinels with crossed bayonets.To gain admission it is not sufficient to be in uniform and militaryaccoutrements; explanations have to be made and the countersign given.In the great city where I am a stranger, I have to ask my way to thecathedral, for it is no longer in sight. Its lofty grey silhouette,which, viewed from afar, dominated everything so imposingly, as a castleof giants would dominate the houses of dwarfs, now seems to havecrouched down to hide itself."To get to the cathedral," people reply, "you must first turn to theright over there, and then to the left, and then to the right, etc."And my motor car plunges into the crowded streets. There are manysoldiers, regiments on the march, motor-ambulances in single file, butthere are many ordinary footfarers, too, unconcerned as if nothing werehappening, and there are even many well-dressed women, with prayer-booksin their hands, in honour of Sunday.At a street-crossing there is a gathering of people in front of a housewhose walls bear signs of recent damage, the reason being that a shellhas just fallen there. It is just one of their little brutal jests, soto speak; we understand the situation, look you; it is a simple pastime,just a matter of killing a few persons, on a Sunday morning for choice,because there are more people in the streets on Sunday mornings. But itseems, indeed, as if this town had reconciled itself to its lot, tolive its life watched by the remorseless binoculars, under the fire ofsavages lurking on the neighbouring hillside. The wayfarers stop for amoment to look at the walls and the marks made by the shell-bursts, andthen they quietly continue their Sunday walk. This time, we are told, itis women and little girls who lie weltering in their blood, victims ofthat amiable peasantry. We hear about it, and then think no more of thematter, as if it were of the smallest importance in times such as these.This quarter of the town is now deserted. Houses are closed; a silenceas of mourning prevails. And at the far end of a street appear the tallgrey gates, the lofty pointed arches with their marvellous carvings andthe soaring towers. There is no sound; there is not a living soul in thesquare where the phantom basilica still stands in majesty, where thewind blows cold and the sky is dark.The basilica of Rheims still keeps its place as if by miracle, but soriddled and rent it is, that it seems ready to collapse at the slightestshock. It gives the impression of a huge mummy, still erect andmajestic, but which the least touch would turn into ashes. The ground isstrewn with its precious fragments. It has been hastily enclosed with ahoarding of white wood, and within its bounds lies, in little heaps, itsconsecrated dust, fragments of stucco, shivered panes of glass, heads ofangels, clasped hands of saints, male and female. The calcinedstone-work of the tower on the left, from top to bottom, has assumed astrange colour like that of baked flesh, and the saints, still standingupright in rank on the cornices, have been decorticated, as it were, byfire. They have no longer either faces or fingers, yet, still retainingtheir human form, they resemble corpses ranged in rows, their contoursbut faintly defined under a kind of reddish shroud.We make a circuit of the square without meeting anyone, and the hoardingwhich isolates the fragile, still wonderful phantom is everywhere firmlyclosed.As for the old palace attached to the basilica, the episcopal palacewhere the kings of France were wont to repose on the day of theircoronation, it is nothing more than a ruin, without windows or roof,blackened all over by tongues of flame.What a peerless jewel was this church, more beautiful even than_Notre-Dame de Paris_, more open to the light, more ethereal, moresoaringly uplifted with its columns like long reeds, astonishinglyfragile considering the weight they bear, a miracle of the religious artof France, a masterpiece which the faith of our ancestors had wakenedinto being in all its mystic purity before the sensual ponderousness ofthat which we have agreed to call the Renaissance had come to us fromItaly, materialising and spoiling all. Oh, how gross, how cowardly, howimbecile was the brutality of those who fired those volleys ofscrap-iron with full force against tracery of such delicacy, that hadstayed aloft in the air for centuries in confidence, no battles, noinvasions, no tempests ever daring to assail its beauty.That great, closed house yonder in the square must be the archbishop'spalace. I venture to ring at the door and request the privilege ofentering the church."His Eminence," I am told, "is at Mass, but would soon return, if Iwould wait."And while I am waiting, the priest, who acts as my host, tells me thehistory of the burning of the episcopal palace."First of all they sprinkled the roofs with I know not what diabolicalpreparation; then, when they threw their incendiary bombs, the woodworkburnt like straw, and everywhere you saw jets of green flame whichburned with a noise like that of fireworks."Indeed the barbarians had long prepared with studied foresight this deedof sacrilege, in spite of their idiotically absurd pretexts and theirshameless denials. That which they had desired to destroy here was thevery heart of ancient France, impelled as much by some superstitiousfancy as by their own brutal instincts, and upon this task they benttheir whole energy, while in the rest of the town nothing else, oralmost nothing, suffered damage."Could no attempt be made," I ask, "to replace the burnt roof of thebasilica, to cover over as soon as possible these arches, which will nototherwise withstand the ravages of next winter?""Undoubtedly," he replies, "there is a risk that at the first falls ofsnow, the first showers of rain, all this will crumble to ruins, moreespecially as the calcined stones have lost their power of resistance.But we cannot even attempt to preserve them a little, for the Germans donot let us out of their sight. It is the cathedral, always thecathedral, that they watch through their field-glasses, and as soon as asingle person appears in the bell turret of a tower the rain of shellsbegins again. No, there is nothing to be done. It must be left to thegrace of God."On his return, His Eminence graciously provides me with a guide, who hasthe keys of the hoarding, and at last I penetrate into the ruins of thebasilica, into the nave, which, being stripped bare, appears the loftierand vaster for it.It is cold there and sad enough for tears. It is perhaps this unexpectedchill, a chill far more piercing than that of the world without, whichat first grips you and disconcerts you. Instead of the somewhat heavyperfume that generally hangs about old basilicas, smoke of so muchincense burned there, emanations of so many biers blessed by thepriests, of so many generations who have hastened there to wrestle andpray--instead of this, there is a damp, icy wind which whistles throughcrevices in the walls, through broken windows and gaps in the vaults.Towards those vaults up yonder, pierced here and there by shrapnel, theeyes are raised, immediately, instinctively, to gaze at them. The sightis led up towards them, as it were, by all those columns that jut out,shooting aloft in sheaves, for their support. They have flying curves,these vaults, of exquisite grace, so designed, it seems, that they maynot hinder prayers in their upward flight, nor force back to earth agaze that aims at heaven. One never grows tired of bending the headbackwards to gaze at them, those sacred vaults hastening to destruction.And then high up, too, quite high up, throughout the whole length of thenave, is the long succession of those almost ethereal pointed archeswhich support the vaults and arches, alike, yet not rigidly uniform, andso harmonious, despite their elaborate carving, that they give rest tothe eye that follows them upwards in their soaring perspective. Thesevast ceilings of stone are so airy in appearance, and moreover sodistant, that they do not oppress or confine the spirit. Indeed theyseem freed from all heaviness, almost insubstantial.Moreover, it is wiser to move on under that roof with head turned upwardand not to watch too closely where the feet may fall, for that pavement,reverberating rather sadly, has been sullied and blackened by charredhuman flesh. It is known that on the day of the conflagration thechurch was full of wounded Germans lying on straw mattresses, whichcaught fire, and a scene of horror ensued, worthy of a vision of Dante;all these beings, their green wounds scorched by the flames, draggedthemselves along screaming, on red stumps, trying to win through doorstoo narrow. Renowned, too, is the heroism of those stretcher-bearers,priests and nuns, who risked their lives in the midst of falling bombsin their attempt to save these unhappy wretches, whom their own Germanbrothers had not even thought to spare. Yet they did not succeed insaving all; some remained and were burnt to death in the nave, leavingunseemly clots of blood on the sacred flagstones, where formerlyprocessions of kings and queens had slowly trailed their ermine mantlesto the sound of great organs and plain-song."Look," said my guide, showing me a wide hole in one of the aisles,"this is the work of a shell which they hurled at us yesterday evening.And now come and see the miracle."And he leads me into the choir where the statue of Joan of Arc,preserved it may be said by some special Providence, still standsunharmed, with its eyes of gentle ecstasy.The most irreparable disaster is the ruin of those great glass windows,which the mysterious artists of the thirteenth century had piouslywrought in meditation and dreams, assembling together in hundreds,saints, male and female, with translucent draperies and luminousaureoles. There again German scrap-iron has crashed through in greatsenseless volleys, shattering everything. Irreplaceable masterpieces arescattered on the flagstones in fragments that can never bereassembled--golds, reds and blues, of which the secret has been lost.Vanished are the transparent rainbow colours, perished those saintlypersonages, in the pretty simplicity of their attitudes, with theirsmall, pale, ecstatic faces; a thousand precious fragments of thatglasswork, which in the course of centuries has acquired an iridescencesomething in the manner of opals, lie on the ground, where indeed theystill shine like gems.To-day there is silence in the basilica, as well as in the desertedsquare around it; a deathlike silence within these walls, which for solong had vibrated to the voice of organs and the old ritual chants ofFrance. The cold wind alone makes a kind of music this Sunday morning,and at times when it blows harder there is a tinkling like the fall ofvery light pearls. It is the falling of the little that still remainedin place of the beautiful glass windows of the thirteenth century,crumbling away entirely, beyond recovery.A whole splendid cycle of our history which seemed to live in thesanctuary, with a life almost tangible, though essentially spiritual,has suddenly been plunged into the abyss of things gone by, of whicheven the memory will soon pass away. The great barbarism has sweptthrough this place, the modern barbarism from beyond the Rhine, athousand times worse than the barbarism of old times, because it isdoltishly, outrageously self-satisfied, and consequently fundamental,incurable, and final--destined, if it be not crushed, to overwhelm theworld in a sinister night of eclipse.In truth it is strange how that statue of Joan of Arc in the choir hasremained standing calm, intact, immaculate, without even the smallestscratch upon her gown.VIITHE FLAG WHICH OUR NAVAL BRIGADE DO NOT YET POSSESS _December, 1914._At first they were sent to Paris, those dear sailors of ours, so thatthe duty of policing the city, of maintaining order, enforcing silenceand good behaviour might be entrusted to them--and I could not helpsmiling; it seemed so incongruous, this entirely new part which someonehad thought fit to make them play. For truth to tell, between ourselves,correct behaviour in the streets of towns has never been the especialboast of our excellent young friends. Nevertheless by dint of making uptheir minds to it and assuming an air of seriousness, they had acquittedthemselves almost with honour up to the moment when they were freedfrom that insufferable constraint and were sent outside the city toguard the posts in the entrenched camp. That was already a littlebetter, a little more after their own hearts. At last came a day ofrejoicing and glorious intoxication, when they were told that they wereall going into the firing-line.If they had had a flag that day, like their comrades of the land-forces,I will not assert that they would have marched away with more enthusiasmand gaiety, for that would have been impossible, but assuredly theywould have marched more proudly, mustered around that sublime bauble,whose place nothing can ever take, whatever may be said or done.Sailors, more perhaps than other men, cherish this devotion to the flag,fostered in them by the touching ceremonial observed on our ships, whereto the sound of the bugle the flag is unfurled each morning and furledeach evening, while officers and crew bare their heads in silence, inreverent salute.Yes, they would have been well pleased, our Naval Brigade, to have had aflag wherewith to march into the firing-line, but their officers said tothem:"You will certainly be given one in the end, as soon as you have won ityonder."And they went away singing, all with the same ardour of heroes; all, Isay, not only those who still uphold the admirable traditions of ourNavy of old, but even the new recruits, who were already a littlecorrupted--no more than superficially, however--by disgusting,anti-military claptrap, but who had suddenly recovered their senses andwere exalted at the sound of the German guns. All were united, resolute,disciplined, sobered, and dreaming of having a flag on their return.They were sent in haste to Ghent to cover the retreat of the BelgianArmy, but on the way they were stopped at Dixmude, where the barbarianswith pink skins like boiled pig were established in ten times theirnumber, and where at all costs a stand was to be made to prevent theabominable onrush from spreading farther.They had been told:"The part assigned to you is one of danger and gravity; we have need ofyour courage. In order to save the whole of our left wing you mustsacrifice yourselves until reinforcements arrive. _Try to hold out atleast four days._"And they held out twenty-six mortal days. They held out almost alone,for reinforcements, owing to unforeseen difficulties, were insufficientand long in coming. And of the six thousand that marched away, there areto-day not more than three thousand survivors.They had the bare necessities of life and hardly those. When they leftParis, where the weather was warm and summery, they did not anticipatesuch bitter cold. Most of them wore nothing over their chests except theregulation jumper of cotton, striped with blue, and light trousers, withnothing underneath, on their legs, and over all that, it is true,infantry great-coats to which they were unaccustomed and which hamperedtheir movements. For provisions they had nothing but some tins of_confiture de singe_.[1] Naturally no one was prepared for what waspractically isolation for twenty-six long days. In the samecircumstances ordinary troops, even though their peers in courage, couldnever have been equal to the occasion. But they had that faculty offighting through, common to seafaring men, which is acquired in thecourse of arduous voyages, in the colonies, among the islands, andthanks to which a true sailor can face any emergency--a special waywith them, after all so natural and moreover so merry withal, sotempered with ingratiating tact that it offends nobody.Well, then, they had fought through; for after those three or four epicweeks, in which day and night they had battled like devils, in fire andwater, the survivors were found well-nourished, almost, and with hardlya cold among them.The only reproach, which I heard addressed to them by their officers,who had the honour to command them in the midst of the furnace, was thatthey could not reconcile themselves to the practice of crawling.Crawling is a mode of progression introduced into modern warfare byGerman cunning, and it is well known that our soldiers have to beprepared for it by a long course of training. Now there had not beentime to accustom these men to the practice, and when it came to anattack they set out indeed as ordered, dragging themselves along on allfours, but, promptly carried away by their zeal, they stood up to getinto their stride, and too many of them were mown down by shrapnel.One of them told me yesterday, in the words I now quote, how his companyhaving been ordered to transfer themselves to another part of the battlefront--but without letting themselves be seen, walking along, bentdouble, at the bottom of a long interminable trench--were really unableto obey the order literally."The trench was already half full of our poor dead comrades. And youwill understand, sir, that in places where there were too many of them,it would have hurt us to walk on them; we could not do it. We came outof the ditch, and ran as fast as our legs would carry us along the slopeof the parapet, and the Boches who saw us made haste to kill us. But,"he continued, "except for trifling acts of disobedience such as that, Iassure you, sir, that we behaved very well. Thus I remember someofficers commanding sharp-shooters and some officers of light infantry,who had witnessed the Battles of the Marne and the Aisne. Well, whenthey came sometimes to chat with our officers, we used to hear them say,'Our soldiers they were brave fellows enough, to be sure! But to seeyour sailors fighting is an absolute eye-opener all the same.'"And that town of Dixmude, where they contrived to hold out fortwenty-six days, became by degrees something like an ante-room of hell.There were rain, snow, floods, churning up black mud in the bottom ofthe trenches; blood splashing up everywhere; roofs falling in, crushingwounded in confused heaps or dead bodies in all stages ofdecomposition; cries and death rattles unceasing, mingling with thecontinual crash of thunder close at hand. There was fighting in everystreet, in every house, through broken windows, behind fragments ofwalls--such close hand-to-hand fighting that sometimes men were lockedtogether trying to strangle one another. And often at night, whenalready men could no longer tell where to strike home, there werebewildering acts of treachery committed by Germans, who would suddenlybegin to shout in French:"Cease fire, you fools! It is our men who are there and you are firingon your own comrades."And men lost their heads entirely, as in a nightmare, from which theycould neither rouse themselves nor escape.At last came the day when the town was taken. The Germans suddenlybrought up terrific reinforcements of heavy artillery, and heavy shellsfell all round like hail--those enormous shells, the devil's own, whichmake holes six to eight yards wide by four yards deep. They came at therate of fifty or sixty a minute, and in the craters they made there wasat once a jumbled mass of masonry, furniture, carpets, corpses, a chaosof nameless horror. To continue there became truly a task beyond humanendurance; it would have meant a massacre to the very last man, moreoverwithout serving any useful purpose, for the abandonment of that mass ofruins, of that charnel-house, which was all that remained of the poorlittle Flemish town, was no longer a matter of importance. It hadresisted just the necessary length of time. The essential point was thatthe Germans had been prevented from crossing over to the other bank ofthe Yser, at a time when, nevertheless, all the chances had seemed intheir favour; the essential point was this especially, that they wouldnever at any time cross over, now that reinforcements had arrived tohold them up in the south, and now that the floods were encroachingeverywhere, barring the way in the north. On this side the barbarians'thrust was definitely countered. And it was our Naval Brigade, whoalmost by themselves, unwavering in the face of overwhelming numbers,had there supported our left wing, though losing _half_ of theireffective and eighty per cent. of their officers.Then they said to themselves, those who were left of them:"Our flag--we shall get it this time."Besides, officers in high command, touched and amazed at so muchbravery, had promised it to them, and so had the head of the FrenchGovernment himself, one day when he came to congratulate them.But alas! they have not yet received it, and perhaps it will never betheirs, unless those officers in high command, to whom I have referred,who have partly pledged their word, intervene while there is yet time,before all these deeds of heroism have fallen into oblivion.For God's sake give them their flag, our Naval Brigade! And even beforesending it to them it would be well, methinks, to decorate it with theCross.       *       *       *       *       *P.S.--Last week the Naval Brigade were mentioned at the head of the ArmyOrders of the day, _for having given proof of the greatest energy andcomplete devotion to duty in the defence of a strategic position ofgreat importance_.FOOTNOTE:[1] Military slang term for tins of preserved meat.VIIITAHITI AND THE SAVAGES WITH PINK SKINS LIKE BOILED PIG _November, 1914._After the lapse of so many years, and in the midst of those moods ofrage and anguish or of splendid exaltation which characterise thepresent hour, I had quite forgotten the existence of a certain enchantedisle, very far away, on the other side of the earth, in the midst of thegreat Southern Ocean, rearing among the warm clouds of those regions itsmountains, carpeted with ferns and flowers. In our October climate,already cold, here in this district of Paris, bare of leaves and inautumn colouring, where I have lived for a month, whence you have but towithdraw a little way to the north in order to hear the cannon crashingincessantly like a storm, and where each day countless graves areprepared for the burial of the most precious and cherished sons ofFrance--here the name of Tahiti seems to me the designation of somevisionary Eden. I can no longer bring myself to believe that my sojournin former days in that far-away island was an actual fact. It is with aneffort that I recall to my memory that sea, bordered with beaches ofpure white coral, the palm trees with arching fronds, and the Maorisliving in a perpetual dream, a childlike race with no thought beyondsinging and garlanding themselves with flowers.Tahiti, the island of which I had thought no more, has just beenabruptly recalled to my mind by an article in a newspaper, in which itis stated that the Germans have passed that way, pillaging everything.And the commander of the two cruisers, who, without running any risk tothemselves, be it understood, committed this dastardly outrage on a poorlittle open town lying there all unsuspecting, cannot claim to have hadany order issued to them from their horrible Emperor--no, indeed, sincethey were at the other end of the world. All by themselves they hadfound this thing to do, and of their own accord they did it, from sheerTeutonic savagery.Yesterday in one of the forts of Paris garrisoned by our sailors, I metan old naval petty officer who, in former days, had on two or threeoccasions sailed under my orders. He seems to me to have found the namemost appropriate to the Prussians and one that deserves to stick tothem."Well you see, Commander," he said to me, "you and I have often visitedtogether all kinds of savages whom I should have thought the biggestbrutes of all, savages with black skins, with yellow skins, or with redskins, but I now see clearly that there is another sort still--thoseother dirty savages with pink skins like boiled pig, who are much theworst of all."And so Tahiti the Delectable, where blood had never before been shed, alittle Eden, harmless and confiding, set in the midst of mightyoceans--Tahiti has just suffered the visitation of savages with pinkskins like boiled pig. So without profit, as without excuse, simply forthe sport of the thing, for the pure German pleasure of wreaking as muchevil as possible, never mind upon whom, never mind where, these savages,indeed "that worst kind of all," amused themselves by making a heap ofruins in that Bay of Papeete with its eternal calm, under trees evergreen, among roses ever in flower.It is true this happened in the Antipodes, and it is so trifling, sovery trifling a matter, compared with the smoking charnel-houses whichin Belgium and France were landmarks in the track of the accursed army.But nevertheless it is especially deserving of being brought up again asa still more peculiarly futile and fatuous act of ferocity.IXA LITTLE HUSSAR _December, 1914._His name was Max Barthou. He was one of those dearly loved only sonswhose death shatters two or three lives at least, and already we had toonearly forgotten all the skill and courage on his father's part to whichwe owed the Three Years' Service Bill, without which all France to-daywould be prostrate under the heel of the Monster.To be sure he, young Max, had done no more than all those thousands ofothers who have given their lives so gloriously. It is not, then, onthat account that I have chosen to speak of him in a special manner. No;one of my chief reasons, no doubt, is that his parents are very dearfriends of mine. But it is also for the sake of the boy himself, forwhom I had a great affection; moreover, I take a melancholy pleasure inmentioning what a charming little fellow he was. In the first place hehad contrived to remain a child, like boys of my own generation longago, and this is very rare among young Parisians of to-day, most ofwhom, although this sort of thing is now being brought under control,are at eighteen insufferable little wiseacres. To remain a child! Howmuch that implies, not freshness alone, but modesty, discernment, goodsense, and clear judgment! Although he was very learned, almost beyondhis years, he had contrived to remain simple, natural, devoted to hearthand home, which he seldom left for more than a few hours in the day,when he went to attend his lectures.During my flying visits to Paris, when I chanced to be dining with hisparents on special days as their only guest, I used to talk to him inspite of the charming shyness he displayed, and each time I appreciatedstill more deeply his gentle, profound young soul. I can still see himafter dinner in the familiar drawing-room, where he would linger with usfor a moment before going away to finish his studies. On thoseoccasions, unconventional though it may have been, he would lean againsthis mother's knee so as to be closer to her, or even lie on the rug ather feet, still playing the part of a coaxing child, teasing thewhile--oh, very gently, to be sure--an old Siamese cat which had beenthe companion of his earliest years and now growled at everyone excepthim. Good God, it was only yesterday! It was only last spring that thislittle hero, who has just fallen a victim to German shrapnel, wouldtumble about on the floor, playing with his friend, the old growlingcat.But what a transformation in those three months! It is scarcely a weeksince I met in a lobby at General Headquarters a smart and resolute bluehussar, who, after having saluted correctly, stood looking at me, notventuring to address me, but surprised that I did not speak to him. Ah!to be sure, it was young Max, whom, at first sight, I had not recognisedin his new kit--a young Max of eighteen, greatly changed by the magicwand of war, for he had suddenly grown into a man, and his eyes nowshone with a sobered joy. At last he had obtained his heart's desire;to-morrow he was to set out for Alsace for the firing-line."So you have got what you wanted, my young friend," I said to him. "Areyou pleased?""Oh yes, I am pleased."That, to be sure, was clear from his appearance, and I bade him good-byewith a smile, wishing him the luck to win that splendid medal, thatmost splendid of all medals, which is fastened with a yellow ribbonbordered with green. I had indeed no foreboding that I had just shakenhis hand for the last time.What insinuating perseverance he had brought to bear in order that hemight get to the Front, for his father, though to be sure he would havemade no attempt to keep him back, had a horror of doing anything toforce on his destiny, and only yielded step by step, glad of heart, yetat the same time in agony at seeing his boy's splendid spirit developingso rapidly.First of all he had to let him volunteer; then when the boy was chafingwith impatience in the _d?p?ts_ where our sons are trained for thefiring-line he had to obtain permission for him to leave before histurn. The commander-in-chief, who had welcomed him with pleasure, hadwished to keep him by his side, but he protested, gently but firmly, onthe occasion of a visit his father paid to the general headquarters."I feel too much sheltered here, which is absurd considering the name Ibear. Ought I not, on the contrary, to set an example?"And with a sudden return to that childlike gaiety which he had had theexquisite grace to preserve, hidden under his soldier's uniform, headded with the smile of old days:"Besides, papa, as the son of the Three Years' Service Bill, it is up tome to do at least three times as much of it as anyone else."His father, need I say, understood--understood with all hisheart--understood so well that, divided between pride and distress, heasked immediately that the boy might be sent to Alsace.And he had scarcely arrived yonder--at Thann, on the day of abombardment--when a senseless volley of Germany shrapnel, whence it camenone knew, without any military usefulness, and simply for the pleasureof doing harm, shattered him like a thing of no account. He had no timeto do "thrice as much as anyone else," alas no! In less than a minutethat young life, so precious, so tenderly cherished, was extinguishedfor ever.Four others, companions of his dream of glory, fell at his side, killedby the same shell, and the next day they were all committed to the careof that earth of Alsace which had once more become French.And in his honour, poor little blue hussar, the people of Thann, whosince yesterday were German no longer, desired of their own accord tomake some special demonstration, because he was the son of the ThreeYears' Service Bill. These Alsatians, released from bondage, had thefancy to adorn his coffin with gilding, simple but charming, as if for alittle prince in a fairy-tale, and they carried him in their arms, himalone, while his companions were borne along behind him on a cart.After the service in the old church the whole assembly, at least threethousand in number, were warned that it would be exceedingly dangerousto go any farther. As the cemetery was in an exposed position, spiedupon by German binoculars, the long procession ran a great risk ofattracting the barbarians' shrapnel fire, for it was unlikely that theywould miss such an excellent opportunity of taking life. But no one wasafraid, no one stayed behind, and the little hussar was escorted by themall to the very end.And there are thousands and thousands of our sons mown down in thismanner--sons from villages or castles, who were all the hope of, allthat made life worth living for, mothers, fathers, grandfathers, andgrandmothers. Night and day for eighteen years, twenty years, they hadbeen surrounded with every care, brooded over with all tenderness.Anxious eyes had watched unremittingly their physical and moral growth.For some of them, of humbler families, heavy sacrifices had necessarilyto be made and privations endured so that their health might be assuredand their minds have scope to expand, to gain knowledge of the world, tobe enriched with beautiful impressions. And then, suddenly, there theyare, these dear boys, prepared for life with such painstaking love;there they are, beloved young heroes, with shattered breast or brainsblown out--by order of that damnable Jack-pudding who rules in Berlin.Oh, execrations and curses upon the monster of ferocity and trickerywho has unchained all this woe! May his life be greatly prolonged sothat he may at least have time to suffer greatly; and afterwards may hestill live on and remain fully conscious and lucid of intellect in thehour when he shall cross the threshold of eternity, where upon thatdoor, which will never again be opened, may be read, flaming in thedarkness, that sentence of utmost horror, "_All hope abandon, ye whoenter here._"XAN EVENING AT YPRES      "In anticipation of death I make this confession, that I      despise the German nation on account of its infinite      stupidity, and that I blush to belong to it."      SCHOPENHAUER.      "The character of the Germans presents a terrible blend of      ferocity and trickery. They are a people of born liars. One      must see this to believe it."      VELLEIUS PATERCULUS,      _In the year 10 of the Christian era_. _March, 1915._Ruins in a mournful light which is anxious, seemingly, to fade away intoa premature darkness. Vast ruins, ruins of such delicacy! Here is adeployment of those exquisite, slender colonnades and those archways ofmysterious charm, which at first sight conjure up for the mind theMiddle Ages and Gothic Art in its fair but transient blossoming. But ingeneral, surviving specimens of that Art were only to be found inisolated examples, in the form of some old church or old cloister,surrounded by things of modern growth, whereas at Ypres, there is an_ensemble_; first a cathedral with additions of complicatedsupplementary buildings, that might be called palaces, whose longfa?ades with their clock-towers present to the eye their succession ofwindows with pointed arches. As an architectural group it is almostunique in the world, actually a whole quarter of a town, built in littlecolumns, little arches and archaic stone tracery.The sky is low, gloomy, tormented, as in dreams. The actual night hasnot yet begun to fall, but the thick clouds of northern winters castupon the earth this kind of yellowish obscurity. Round about the loftyruins, the open spaces are full of soldiers standing still, or slowlymaking their rounds, all with a certain air of seriousness, as ifremembering or expecting some event, of which everyone is aware, butwhich no one discusses. There are also women poorly dressed, withanxious faces, and little children, but the humble population ofcivilians is merged in a crowd of rough uniforms, almost all of themfaded and coated with earth, obviously returned after prolongedengagements. The yellow khaki uniforms of the English and the almostblack uniform of the Belgians mingle with the "horizon" blue ofgreat-coats worn by our French soldiers, who are in a majority; allthese different shades blend into an almost neutral colour scheme, andtwo or three red burnouses of Arab chiefs strike a vivid note,unexpected, disconcerting, in that crowd, coloured like the misty winterevening.Here are ruins indeed, but on closer inspection, inexplicable ruins, fortheir collapse seems to date from yesterday, and the crevices and gapsare unnaturally white among the greyish tints of the fa?ades or towers,and here and there, through broken windows, on the interior walls isvisible the glittering of gilding. Indeed it is not time that haswrought these ravages--time had spared these wonders--nor yet until ourown days, even in the midst of the most terrible upheavals and mostruthless conquest, had men ever attempted to destroy them. No one haddared the deed until the coming of those savages, who are still there,close at hand, crouching in their holes of muddy earth, perfecting eachday their idiotic work, and multiplying their volleys of scrap-iron,wreaking their vengeance on these sacred objects whenever they areseized again by an access of rage in consequence of a new repulse.Near the mutilated cathedral, that palace of a hundred windows, which inthe main still stands, is the famous Cloth Hall, built when Flanders wasat the height of her glory, a building vulgarised in all its aspects byreproductions, ever since the vindictiveness of the barbarians renderedit still more famous. One November night, it will be remembered, itblazed with sinister magnificence, side by side with the church and theprecious buildings surrounding it, illuminating with a red light all theopen country. The Germans had brought up in its honour the best thatthey could muster of incendiary material; their benzine bombs consumedthe Hall and then all that it contained; all the treasures that had beenpreserved there for centuries, its state-rooms, its wainscoting, itspictures, its books, all burned like straw. Now that it is bereft of itslofty roof it has acquired something rather Venetian and surprising inits appearance, with its long fa?ades pierced with uninterrupted rows offloreated pointed arches. In the midst of its irremediable disorder, itis strange and charming. The symmetrical turrets, slender as minarets,set in the angles of the walls, have hitherto escaped those insensatebombs and rise up more boldly than ever, whereas the woodwork of thepointed roofs no longer soars with them up into the air. But the belfryin the centre, which ever since the Middle Ages has kept watch over theplains, is to-day hatefully disfigured, its summit clean cut off,shattered, cleft from top to bottom. It is scarcely in a condition tooffer further resistance; a few more shells, and it will collapse in onemass. On one of its sides, very high up, still hangs the monumentaldial of a ruined clock, of which the hands point persistently totwenty-five minutes past four--doubtless the tragic moment at which thisgiant among Flemish belfries received its death blow.Around the great square of Ypres, where these glories of past ages hadso long been preserved for us intact, several houses, the majority ofthem of ancient Flemish architecture, have been eviscerated in likemanner, without object, without excuse, their interior visible fromoutside through great, gaping holes. But this the barbarians did not doon purpose; it was merely that they happened to be too near, thesehouses, too closely adjacent to the targets they had chosen, thecathedral and the old palace. It is known that everywhere here, as atLouvain, at Arras, at Soissons, at Rheims, their greatest delight is todirect their fire at public buildings, ruining again and again all thatis famous for beauty, art or memories. So then, except for its historicsquare, the town of Ypres has not suffered very greatly. Ah, but wait! Iwas forgetting the hospital yonder, which likewise served them fortarget; for the matter of that the Germans have notoriously a preferencefor bombarding places of refuge, shelters for wounded and sick,ambulances, first-aid stations and Red Cross wagons.These acts of destruction, transforming into a rubbish heap thattranquil country of Belgium, which was above everything an incomparablemuseum, all are agreed to stigmatise as a base, ignoble crime. But it ismore than that, it is a masterpiece of the crassest stupidity--thestupidity that Schopenhauer himself could not forbear to publish in thefrank outburst evoked by his last moments; for after all it amounts tosigning and initialling the ignominy of Germany for the edification ofneutrals and of generations to come. The bodies of men tortured andhanged, of women and children shot or mutilated, will soon moulder awaycompletely in their poor, nameless graves, and then the world willremember them no more. But these imperishable ruins, these innumerableruins of museums or churches, what overwhelming and damning evidencethey are, and how everlasting!After having done all this it is perhaps still more foolish to deny it,to deny it in the very face of such incontrovertible evidence, to denyit with an effrontery that leaves us Frenchmen aghast, or even to inventpretexts at whose childish imbecility we can only shrug our shoulders."A people of born liars," said the Latin writer. Yes, and a people whowill never eradicate their original vices, a people who, moreover,actually dared, despite the most irrefutable written documents, to denythe premeditation of their crimes and the treachery of their attack.What absurd childishness they reveal in their impostures! And who can bethe simpletons whom they hope to deceive?The light is still fading upon the desolate ruins of Ypres, but howslowly to-day! That is because even at noon the light was scarcelystronger on this dull day of March; only at this hour a certainatmosphere, indefinite and sad, broods upon the distant landscape,indicating the approach of night.They look instinctively at the ruins, these thousands of soldiers,taking their evening walk in such melancholy surroundings, but generallythey remain at a distance, leaving the ruins to their magnificentisolation. However, here are three of them, Frenchmen, probablynewcomers, who approach the ruins hesitatingly. They advance until theystand under the little arches of the tottering cathedral with a soberair, as if they were visiting tombs. After contemplating them at firstin silence, one of them suddenly ejaculates a term of abuse (to whom itis addressed may be easily imagined!), doubtless the most insulting hecan find in the French language, a word that I had not expected, whichfirst makes me smile and then, the next moment, impresses me on thecontrary as a valuable discovery."Oh those hooligans!"Here the intonation is missing, for I am unable to reproduce it, but intruth the compliment, pronounced as he pronounced it, seems to mesomething new, worth adding to all the other epithets applied toGermans, which are always pitched in too low a key and moreover toorefined; and he continues to repeat, indignant little soldier that heis, stamping with rage:"Oh those hooligans among hooligans!"At last the fall of night is upon us, the true night, which will put anend here to all signs of life. The crowd of soldiers gradually meltsaway along streets already dark, which, for obvious reasons, will not belighted. In the distance the sound of the bugle summons them to theirevening soup in houses or barracks, where they will fall asleep with nosense of security, certain of being awakened at any moment by shells, orby those great monsters that explode with a crash like thunder. Poor,brave children of France, wrapped in their bluish overcoats, none canforesee at what hour death will be hurled at them, from afar, blindly,through the misty darkness--for the most playful fancy presides overthis bombardment; now it is an endless rain of fire, now only a singleshell which comes and kills at haphazard. And patiently awaiting therest of the great drama lie the ruins, enveloped in silence. Here andthere a little timid light appears in some house still inhabited, wherethe windows are pasted over with paper to enable them to resist theshock of explosions close at hand, and where the air-holes of thecellars of refuge are protected by sandbags. Who would believe it?Stubborn people, people too old or too poor to flee, have remained atYpres, and others even are beginning to return, with a kind offatalistic resignation.The cathedral and the great belfry project only their silhouettesagainst the sky, and these seem to have been congealed, gesturing withbroken arms. As the night enfolds the world more completely in its thickmists, memory conjures up the mournful surroundings in which Ypres isnow lost, deep plains unpeopled and soon plunged in darkness, roadsbroken up, impassable for fugitives, fields blotted out or mantled withsnow, a network of trenches where our soldiers, alas! are suffering coldand discomfort, and so near, hardly a cannon-shot away, those otherditches, more grim, more sordid, where men of ineradicable savagery arewatching, always ready to spring out in solid masses, uttering RedIndian war whoops, or to crawl sneakingly along to squirt liquid fireupon our soldiers.But how the twilight has lengthened in these last few days! Withoutlooking at the clock it is evident that the hour is late, and the merefact of still being able to see conveys in spite of all a vague presageof April; it seems that the nightmare of winter is coming to an end,that the sun will reappear, the sun of deliverance, that softer breezes,as if nothing unusual were happening in the world, will bring backflowers and songs of birds to all these scenes of desolation, among allthese thousands of graves of youth. There is yet another sign ofspring, three or four little girls, who rush out into the desertedsquare in wild spirits, quite little girls, not more than six years old;they have escaped, fleet of foot, from the cellar in which they sleep,and they take hands and try to dance a round, as on an evening in May,to the tune of an old Flemish song. But another child, a big girl often, a person in authority, comes along and reduces them to silence,scolding them as if they had done something naughty, and drives themback to the underground dwellings, where, after they have said theirprayers, lowly mothers will put them to bed.Unspeakably sad seemed that childish round, tentatively danced there insolitude at the fall of a cold March night, in a square dominated by aphantom belfry, in a martyred city, in the midst of gloomy, inundatedplains, all in darkness, and all beset with ambushes and mourning.Since this chapter was written the bombardment has continued, and Ypresis now no more than a shapeless mass of calcined stones.XIAT THE GENERAL HEADQUARTERS OF THE BELGIAN ARMY _March, 1915._To-day on my way to the General Headquarters of the Belgian Army,whither I am bound on a mission from the President of the FrenchRepublic to His Majesty King Albert, I pass through Furnes, another townwantonly and savagely bombarded, where at this hour of the day there isa raging storm of icy wind, snow, rain, and hail, under a black sky.Here as at Ypres the barbarians bent their whole soul on the destructionof the historical part, the charming old town hall and its surroundings.It is here that King Albert, driven forth from his palace, establishedhimself at first. Thereupon the Germans, with that delicacy of feelingto which at present no one in the world disputes their claim,immediately made this place their objective, in order to bombard it withtheir brutal, heavy shells. I need hardly say that there was scarcelyanyone in the streets, where I slowed down my motor so that I might haveleisure for a better appreciation of the effects of the Kaiser's "workof civilisation"; there were only some groups of soldiers, fully armed,some with their coat-collars turned up, others with the back curtains oftheir service-caps turned down. They hastened along in the squalls,running like children, and laughing good-humouredly, as if it were veryamusing, this downpour, which for once was not of fire.How is it that there is no atmosphere of sadness about this half-emptytown? It is as if the gaiety of these soldiers, in spite of the gloomyweather, had communicated itself to the ruined surroundings. And howfull of splendid health and spirits they seem! I see no more on anyfaces that somewhat startled, haggard expression, common at thebeginning of the war. The outdoor life, combined with good food, hasbronzed the cheeks of these men whom the shrapnel has spared, but theirprincipal support and stay is their complete confidence, theirconviction that they have already gained the upper hand and are marchingto victory. The invasion of the Boches will pass away like this horribleweather, which after all is only a last shower of March; it will allcome to an end.At a turning, during a lull in the storm, I come very unexpectedly upona little knot of French sailors. I cannot refrain from beckoning tothem, as one would beckon to children whom one had suddenly found againin some distant jungle, and they come running to the door of my carequally delighted to see someone in naval uniform. They seem to bepicked men: they have such gallant, comely faces and such frank,spirited eyes. Other sailors, too, who were passing by at a littledistance and whom I had not called, come likewise and surround me as ifit were the natural thing to do, but with respectful familiarity, forare we not in a strange country, and at war? Only yesterday, they tellme, they arrived a whole battalion strong, with their officers, and theyare camping in a neighbouring village while waiting to "down" theBoches. And I should like so much to make a _d?tour_ and pay them avisit in their own camp if I were not pressed for time, tied down to thehour of my audience with His Majesty. Indeed it gives me pleasure toassociate with our soldiers, but it is a still greater delight toassociate with our sailors, among whom I passed forty years of my life.Even before I caught sight of them, just from hearing them talk, Icould recognise them for what they were. More than once, on our militarythoroughfares in the north, on a pitch-dark night, when it was one oftheir detachments who stopped me to demand the password, I haverecognised them simply by the sound of their voices.One of our generals, army commander on the Northern Front, was speakingto me yesterday of that pleasant, kindly familiarity which prevails fromthe highest to the lowest grade of the military ladder, and which is anew tone characteristic of this essentially national war in which we allmarch hand in hand."In the trenches," he said to me, "if I stop to talk to a soldier, othersoldiers gather round me so that I may talk to them too. And they arebecoming more and more admirable for their high spirits and theirbrotherliness. If only our thousands of dead could be restored to uswhat a benefit this war would have bestowed upon us, drawing us neartogether, until we all possess but one heart."It is a long way to the General Headquarters. Out in the open countrythe weather is appalling beyond description. The roads are broken up,fields flooded until they resemble marshes, and sometimes there aretrenches, _chevaux de frise_, reminding the traveller that thebarbarians are still very near. And yet all this, which ought to bedepressing, no longer succeeds in being so. Every meeting withsoldiers--and the car passes them every minute--is sufficient to restoreyour serenity. They have all the same cheerful faces, expressive ofcourage and gaiety. Even the poor sappers, up to their knees in water,working hard to repair the shelter pits and defences, have an expressionof gaiety under their dripping service-caps. What numbers of soldiersthere are in the smallest villages, Belgian and French, very fraternallyintermingling. By what wonderful organisation of the commissariat arethese men housed and fed?But who asserted that there were no Belgian soldiers left! On thecontrary, I pass imposing detachments on their way to the front, in goodorder, admirably equipped, and of fine bearing, with a convoy ofexcellent artillery of the very latest pattern. Never can enough be saidin praise of the heroism of a people who had every reason for notpreparing themselves for war, since they were under the protection ofsolemn treaties that should have preserved them forever from any suchnecessity, yet who, nevertheless, sustained and checked the brunt of theattack of the great barbarism. Disabled at first and almost annihilated,yet they are recovering themselves and gathering around their sublimelyheroic king.It is raining, raining, and we are numb with cold, but we have arrivedat last, and in another moment I shall see him, the King, withoutreproach and without fear. Were it not for these troops and all theseservice motor cars, it would be impossible to believe that this remotevillage was the General Headquarters. I have to leave the car, for theroad which leads to the royal residence is nothing more than a footpath.Among the rough motor cars standing there, all stained with mud from theroads, there is one car of superior design, having no armorial bearingsof any kind, nothing but two letters traced in chalk on the black door,S.M. (_Sa Majest?_), for this is _his_ car. In this charming corner ofancient Flanders, in an old abbey, surrounded by trees and tombs, hereis his dwelling. Out in the rain, on the path which borders on thelittle sacred cemetery, an aide-de-camp comes to meet me, a man with thecharm and simplicity that no doubt likewise characterise his sovereign.There are no guards at the entrance to the dwelling, and no ceremony isobserved. At the end of an unimposing corridor where I have just time toremove my overcoat, in the embrasure of an opening door, the Kingappears, erect, tall, slender, with regular features and a surprisingair of youth, with frank eyes, gentle and noble in expression,stretching out his hand in kindly welcome.In the course of my life other kings and emperors have been graciousenough to receive me, but in spite of pomp, in spite of the splendour ofsome of their palaces, I have never yet felt such reverence forsovereign majesty as here, on the threshold of this little house, whereit is infinitely exalted by calamity and self-sacrifice; and when Iexpress this sentiment to King Albert he replies with a smile, "Oh, asfor my palace," and he completes his phrase with a negligent wave of thehand, indicating his humble surroundings. It is indeed a simple roomthat I have just entered, yet by the mere absence of all vulgarity,still possessing distinction. A bookcase crowded with books occupies thewhole of one wall; in the background there is an open piano with amusic-book on the stand; in the middle a large table, covered with mapsand strategic plans; and the window, open in spite of the cold, looksout on to a little old-world garden, like that of a parish priest,almost completely enclosed, stripped of its leaves, melancholy, weeping,as it were, the rains of winter.After I have executed the simple mission entrusted to me by thePresident of the Republic, the King graciously detains me a long time inconversation. But if I felt reluctant to write even the beginning ofthese notes, still more do I hesitate to touch upon this interview, evenwith the utmost discretion, and then how colourless will it seem, allthat I shall venture to say! It is because in truth I know that he neverceases to enjoin upon those around him, "Above all, see that people donot talk about me," because I know and understand so well the horror heprofesses for anything resembling an "interview." So then at first Imade up my mind to be silent, and yet when there is an opportunity ofmaking himself heard, who would not long to help to spread abroad, tothe utmost of his small ability, the renown of such a name?Very striking in the first place is the sincere and exquisite modesty ofhis heroic nature; it is almost as if he were unaware that he is worthyof admiration. In his opinion he has less deserved the veneration whichFrance has devoted to him, and his popularity among us, than the leastof his soldiers, slain for our common defence. When I tell him that Ihave seen even in the depths of the country, in peasants' cottages, theportraits of the King and Queen of the Belgians in the place of honour,with little flags, black, yellow and red, piously pinned around them, heappears scarcely to believe me; his smile and his silence seem toanswer:"Yet all that I did was so natural. Could a king worthy of the name haveacted in any other way?"Now we talk about the Dardanelles, where in this hour serious issueshang in the balance; he is pleased to question me about ambushes inthose parts, which I frequented for so long a time, and which have notceased to be very dear to me. But suddenly a colder gust blows inthrough the window, still opening on to the forlorn little garden. Withwhat kindly thoughtfulness, then, he rises, as any ordinary officermight have done, and himself closes the window near which I am seated.And then we talk of war, of rifles, of artillery. His Majesty is wellposted in everything, like a general already broken in to his craft.Strange destiny for a prince, who, in the beginning, did not seemdesignated for the throne, and who, perhaps, would have preferred to goon living his former somewhat retired life by the side of his belovedprincess. Then, when the unlooked-for crown was placed upon his youthfulbrow, he might well have believed that he could hope for an era ofprofound peace, in the midst of the most peaceful of all nations, but,contrary to every expectation, he has known the most appallingly tragicreign of all. Between one day and the next, without a moment'sweakness, without even a moment's hesitation, disdainful of compromises,which for a time, at least, though to the detriment of the civilisationof the world, might have preserved for a little space his towns andpalaces, he stood erect in the way of the Monster's onrush, a greatwarrior king in the midst of an army of heroes.To-day it is clear that he has no longer a doubt of victory, and his ownloyalty gives him complete confidence in the loyalty of the Allies, whotruly desire to restore life to his country of Belgium; nevertheless, heinsists that his soldiers shall co-operate with all their remainingstrength in the work of deliverance, and that they shall remain to theend at the post of danger and honour. Let us salute him with theprofoundest reverence.Another less noble, might have said to himself:"I have amply paid my debt to the common cause; it was my troops whobuilt the first rampart against barbarism. My country, the first to betrampled under the feet of these German brutes, is no more than a heapof ruins. That suffices."But no, he will have the name of Belgium inscribed upon a yet prouderpage, by the side of Serbia, in the golden book of history.And that is the reason why I met on my way those inestimable troops,alert and fresh, miraculously revived, who were on their way to thefront to continue the holy struggle.Before him let us bow down to the very ground.Night is falling when the audience comes to an end and I find myselfagain on the footpath that leads to the abbey. On my return journey,along those roads broken up by rain and by military transport wagons, Iremain under the charm of his welcome. And I compare these two monarchs,situated, as it were, at opposite poles of humanity, the one at the poleof light, the other at the pole of darkness; the one yonder, swollenwith hypocrisy and arrogance, a monster among monsters, his hands fullof blood, his nails full of torn flesh, who still dares to surroundhimself with insolent pomp; the other here, banished without a murmur toa little house in a village, standing on a last strip of his martyredkingdom, but in whose honour rises from the whole civilised earth aconcert of sympathy, enthusiasm, magnificent appreciation, and for whomare stored up crowns of most pure and immortal glory.XIISOME WORDS UTTERED BY HER MAJESTY, THE QUEEN OF THE BELGIANS      "All the world knows what value to attach to the King of      Prussia and his word. There is no sovereign in Europe who      has not suffered from his perfidy. And such a king as this      would impose himself upon Germany as dictator and protector!      Under a despotism which repudiates every principle, the      Prussian monarchy will one day be the source of infinite      calamity, not only to Germany, but likewise to the whole of      Europe." THE EMPRESS MARIA THERESA. _March, 1915._Far away, far away and out of the world seems this place where thepersecuted Queen has taken refuge. I do not know how long my motor car,its windows lashed by rain, has rolled along in the dim light caused byshowers and approaching night, when at last the Belgian non-commissionedofficer, who guided my chauffeur along these unfamiliar roads, announcesthat we have arrived. Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth of the Belgians, hasdeigned to grant me an audience at half-past six, and I trembled lest Ishould be late, for the way seemed interminable through a countrysidewhich it was too dark to see; but we were in time, punctual to a moment.At half-past six on an evening in March, under an overcast sky, it isalready dark as night.The car stops and I jump out on to the sands of the seashore; Irecognise the sound of the ocean close at hand, and the boundlessexpanse of the North Sea, less dark than the sky, is vaguely perceptibleto the sight. Rain and cold winds rage around us. On the dunes two orthree houses without lights in the windows are visible as greyishoutlines. However, someone carrying a little shining glass lamp ishurrying to receive me; he is an officer in Her Majesty's service,carrying one of those electric torches which the wind does not blow out,and which in France we call an Apache's lantern.On entering the first house to which the aide-de-camp conducts me, Iattempt to leave my overcoat in the hall."No, no," he says, "keep it on; we have still to go out of doors toreach Her Majesty's apartments."This first villa shelters only ladies-in-waiting and officers of thatcourt now so shorn of ceremony, and every evening it is plungedpurposely in darkness as a precaution against shrapnel fire. A momentlater I am summoned to Her Majesty's presence. Escorted by the samepleasant officer with his lantern, I hurry across to the next house.The rain is mingled with white butterflies, which are flakes of snow.Very indistinctly I see a desert-like landscape of dunes and sandsalmost white, stretching out into infinity."Would you not imagine it a site in the Sahara?" says my guide. "Whenyour Arab cavalry came here the illusion was complete."It is true, for even in Africa the sands turn pale in the darkness, butthis is a Sahara transported under the gloomy sky of a northern night,and it has assumed there too deep a melancholy.In the villa we enter a warm, well-lighted room, which, with its redfurnishings, introduces a note of gaiety, almost of comfort, into thisquasi-solitude, battered by wintry squalls. And there is a pleasure,which at first transcends everything else--the physical pleasure ofapproaching a fireplace with a good blazing fire.While waiting for the Queen I notice a long packing-case lying on twochairs; it is made of that fine, unequalled, white carpentry whichimmediately reminds me of Nagasaki, and on it are painted Japaneseletters in columns. The officer's glance followed mine."That," he says, "is a magnificent ancient sabre which the Japanese havejust sent to our King."I, personally, had forgotten them, those distant allies of ours in theFarthest East. Yet it is true that they are on our side; how strange athing! And even over there the woes of these two gracious sovereigns areuniversally known, and the Japanese desired to show their specialsympathy by sending them a valuable present.I think this charming officer was going to show me the sabre from Japan,but a lady-in-waiting appears, announcing Her Majesty, and he withdrawsat once."Her Majesty is coming," says the lady-in-waiting.The Queen, whom I have never yet seen, consecrated as it were bysuffering, with what infinite reverence I await her coming, standingthere in front of the fire while wind and snow continue to rage in theblack night outside. Through which door will she enter? Doubtless bythat door over there at the end of the room, on which my attention isinvoluntarily concentrated.But no! A soft, rustling sound makes me turn my head towards theopposite side of the room, and from behind a screen of red silk whichconcealed another door the young Queen appears, so near to me that Ihave not room to make my court bow. My first impression, necessarilyfurtive as a flash of lightning, a mere visual impression, I might say acolourist's impression, is a dazzling little vision of blue--the blue ofher gown, but more especially the blue of her eyes, which shine liketwo luminous stars. And then she has such an air of youth; she seemsthis evening twenty-four, and scarcely that. From the differentportraits I had seen of Her Majesty, portraits so little faithful tolife, I had gathered that she was very tall, with a profile almost toolong, but on the contrary, she is of medium height, and her face issmall, with exquisitely refined features--a face almost ethereal, sodelicate that it almost vanishes, eclipsed by those marvellous, limpideyes, like two pure turquoises, transparent to reveal the light within.Even a man unaware of her rank and of everything concerning her, herdevotion to duty, the superlative dignity of her actions, her sereneresignation, her admirable, simple charity, would say to himself atfirst sight:"The woman with those eyes, who may she be? Assuredly one who soars veryhigh and will never falter, who without even a tremor of her eyelidscan look in the face not only temptations, but likewise danger anddeath."With what reverent sympathy, free from vulgar curiosity, would I faincatch an echo of that which stirs in the depths of her heart when shecontemplates the drama of her destiny. But a conversation with a queenis not directed by one's own fancy, and at the beginning of the audienceHer Majesty touches upon different subjects lightly and gracefully as ifthere were nothing unusual happening in the world. We talk of the East,where we have both travelled; we talk of books she has read; it seems asif we were oblivious of the great tragedy which is being enacted,oblivious of the surrounding country, strewn with ruins and the dead.Soon, however, perhaps because a little bond of confidence hasestablished itself between us, Her Majesty speaks to me of thedestruction of Ypres, Furnes, towns from which I have just come; thenthe two blue stars gazing at me seem to me to grow a little misty, inspite of an effort to keep them clear."But, madam," I say, "there still remains standing enough of the wallsto enable all the outlines to be traced again, and almost everything tobe practically reconstructed in the better times that are in store.""Ah," she answers, "rebuild! Certainly it will be possible to rebuild,but it will never be more than an imitation, and for me somethingessential will always be lacking. I shall miss the soul which has passedaway."Then I see how dearly Her Majesty had already loved those marvels nowruined, and all the past of her adopted country, which survived there inthe old stone tracery of Flanders.Ypres and Fumes incline us to subjects less impersonal, and graduallywe at last come to talk of Germany. One of the sentiments predominant,it seems, in her bruised heart is that of amazement, the most painful aswell as the most complete amazement, at so many crimes."There has been some change in them," she says, in hesitating words."They used not to be like this. The Crown Prince, whom I knew very wellin my childhood, was gentle, and nothing in him led one to expect----Think of it as I may, day and night, I cannot understand---- No, in theold days they were not like this, of that I am sure."But I know very well that they were ever thus (as indeed all of usknow); they were always the same from the beginning under theirinscrutable hypocrisy. But how could I venture to contradict this Queen,born among them, like a beautiful, rare flower among stinging nettlesand brambles? To be sure, the unleashing of their latent barbarism whichwe are now witnessing is the work of that King of Prussia who is thefaithful successor of him whom formerly the great Empress Maria Theresastigmatised; it is he indeed, who, to use the bitter yet very justAmerican expression, has given them swelled heads. But their characterwas ever the same in all ages, and in order to form a judgment of theirsouls, steeped in lies, murders, and rapine, it is sufficient to readtheir writers, their thinkers, whose cynicism leaves us aghast.After a moment's pause in which nothing is heard but the noise of thewind outside, remembering that the young martyred Queen was a Bavarianprincess, I venture to recall the fact that the Bavarians in the GermanyArmy were troubled at the persecutions endured by the Queen of theBelgians, who had sprung from their own race, and indignant when theMonster who leads this Witches' Sabbath even tried to single out herchildren as a mark for his shrapnel lire.But the Queen, raising her little hand from where it rested on thesilken texture of her gown, outlines a gesture which signifies somethinginexorably final, and in a grave, low voice she utters this phrase whichfalls upon the silence with the solemnity of a sentence whence there isno appeal:"It is at an end. Between _them_ and me has fallen a curtain of ironwhich will never again be lifted."At the same time, at the remembrance of her childhood, doubtless, and ofthose whom she loved over there, the two clear blue eyes which werelooking at me grow very misty, and I turn my head away so that I may notseem to have noticed.XIIIAN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF THE SERIOUSLY WOUNDED IN THE EAST _June, 1915._The Orient, the Dardanelles, the Sea of Marmora--the mere enunciation ofthese words, especially in these beautiful months of summer, conjures upimages of sun-steeped repose, a repose perhaps a little mournful becauseof the lack of all movement in those parts, but a repose of suchadorable melancholy, in the midst of so many remembrances of great pastdestinies of humanity, which, throughout these regions, slumber,preserved under the mantle of Islam. But lately on this peninsula ofGallipoli, with its somewhat bare and stony hills, there used to be, inthe winding folds of every river, tranquil old villages, with theirwooden houses built on the site of ancient ruins, their white minarets,their dark cypress groves, sheltering some of those charming gilded_stelae_, which exist in countless numbers, as everyone knows, in thatland of Turkey where the dead are never disturbed. And it was all socalm, all this; it seemed that these humble little Edens might have feltsure of being spared for a long time yet, if not for ever.But alas! the Germans are the cause of the horror that is unchained hereto-day, that horror without precedent, which it is their genius topropagate as soon as they have chosen a spot wherein to stretch outtheir tentacles, visible or concealed. And it has become a most sinisterchaos, lighted by huge flames, red or livid, in a continuous din ofhell. Everything is overthrown in confusion and ruin."The ancient castles of Europe and Asia are nothing more than ruins,"writes to me one of our old Zouaves, who is fighting in those parts;"it is to me unspeakably painful to see those idyllic landscapesharrowed by trenches and shells; the venerable cypress trees are mowndown; funereal marbles of great artistic value are shattered into athousand fragments. If only Stamboul at least may be preserved!"There are trenches, trenches everywhere. To this form of warfare,underground and treacherous, which the Germans have invented, the Turks,like ourselves, have necessarily had to submit. And so this ancientsoil, the repository of the treasures of antiquity, has been ploughed upinto deep furrows, in which appear at every moment the fragments of somemarvel dating from distant, unknown epochs.And at every hour of the night and day these trenches are reddened withblood, with the blood of our sons of France, of our English friends,and even of those gentle giants of New Zealand, who have followed theminto this furnace. The earth is abundantly drenched with their blood,the blood of all these Allies, so dissimilar, but so firmly unitedagainst the monstrous knavery of Germany. Opposite, very close, thereflows the blood of those Turks, who are nothing but the unhappy victimsof hateful plots, yet who are so freely insulted in France by people whounderstand nothing of the underlying cause. They fall in thousands,these Turks, more exposed to shrapnel fire than our own men;nevertheless they fight reluctantly; they fight because they have beendeceived and because insolent foreigners drive them on with theirrevolvers. If on the whole they fight none the less superbly, it ismerely a question of race. And the simplest of them, who have beenpersuaded that they had to do with only their Russian enemies, areunaware that it is we who are there.On this peninsula we occupy a position won and retained by force ofheroism. The formation of the ground continues to render our situationone of difficulty and our tenacity still more worthy of admiration. Ourposition, indeed, is dominated by the low hills of Asia, where the fortshave not yet all been silenced; there is therefore no nook or corner, notent, no single one of our field hospitals, where doctors can attend tothe wounded in perfect security, absolutely certain that no shell willcome and interrupt them.This terrible void France desires to fill with all possible dispatch.With the utmost haste, she is fitting out a great hospital ship, whichthe Red Cross Society has offered to provide at its own expense withthree hundred beds, with linen, nurses, drugs and dressings. Thislife-saving ship will be moored in front of an island close to thescene of battle, but completely sheltered; steam and motor launches willbe attached to it to fetch those who are seriously wounded and bringthem on board day by day, so that they may be operated upon and tendedin peace before infection and gangrene set in. How many precious livesof our soldiers will thus be saved!It must be understood that the stretcher-bearers of the ship will bringback likewise wounded Turks, if there are any lying in the zoneaccessible to them; and this is only fair give and take, for they do thesame for us. Some Zouaves who are fighting there wrote to me yesterday:"The Turks are resisting with unequalled bravery; this all thenewspapers of Europe admit. But our wounded and our prisoners receiveexcellent treatment from them, as General Gouraud himself announced inan Order of the Day; they nurse them, feed them, and tend them betterthan their own soldiers."And here is a literal extract from a letter from one of our adjutants:"I fell, wounded in the leg, beside a Turkish officer more seriouslywounded than myself; he had with him emergency dressings and he began bydressing my wound before thinking of his own. He spoke French very welland he said to me, 'You see, my friend, to what a pass these miserableGermans have brought us!'"If I dwell upon the subject of the Turks it is not, I need hardly say,because I take a deeper interest in them than in our own men; no onewill insult me by such a reflection. No. But as for our own soldiers,does not everyone love them already? Whereas these poor fellows arereally too much misjudged and slandered by the ignorant masses."Spare them as soon as they hold up their hands," said a heroicgeneral, brought home yesterday from the Dardanelles covered withwounds. He was addressing his men in a proclamation admirable for theloyalty of its tone. "Spare them," he said; "it is not they who are ourenemies."So, then, the great life-saving ship which is about to be sent to thoseparts is being made ready to sail in all haste. But the Red CrossSociety have herewith taken upon themselves a heavy responsibility, andit will be readily understood that they will need money, much money.That is why I make this appeal on their behalf to all the world. So muchhas already been given that it is an earnest wish that still more willbe forthcoming, for with us charity is inexhaustible when once the nobleimpulse stirs. I would ask that help may be given very soon, for thereis need of dispatch.How greatly this will change the condition of life for our dearsoldiers. What confidence it will give them to know that if they fall,seriously wounded, there is waiting for them a place of refuge, like alittle corner of France, which is equivalent to saying a corner ofParadise, and that they will be taken there at once. Instead of themiserable makeshift field hospital, too hot and by no means too safe,where the terrible noise never ceases to rack aching temples, there willbe this refuge, absolutely out of range of gun fire, this great peacefulship, open everywhere to the good, wholesome air of the sea, where atlast prevails that silence so passionately desired by sufferers, wherethey will be tended with all the latest improvements and the mostingenious inventions by gentle French nurses in white dresses, whosenoiseless footfall disturbs no slumber nor dream.XIVSERBIA IN THE BALKAN WAR _July, 1915._But lately I had included Serbia--its prince in particular--in my firstaccusations against the Balkan races, when they hurled themselvestogether upon Turkey, already at grips with Italy. But later on, in thecourse of so many wrathful indictments, I did not once again mention thename of the Serbians. That was because my information from those partsproved to me clearly that among the original Allies, the Allies of theBalkans, the Serbians were the most humane. They themselves, doubtless,observed that I made no further reference to them, for no insultingletter reached me from their country, whereas Bulgarians and even Greekspoured upon me a flood of unseemly abuse.Since then the great philanthropist, Carnegie, in order to establishthe truth definitely in history, has set on foot a conscientiousinternational court of inquiry, whose findings, published in a largevolume, have all the authority of the most impartial official documents.Here are recorded, supported by proofs and signatures, the mostappalling testimonies against Bulgarians and Greeks; but noticeablyfewer crimes are ascribed to Serbia's account. But this volume entitled"Conquest in the Balkans" (Carnegie Endowment) has, I fear, been toolittle read, and it is a duty to bring it to the notice of all.Moreover, who would refuse pardon to that gallant Serbian nation for theexcesses they may have committed? Who would not accord to them theprofound sympathy of France to-day, when the Prussian Emperor, in hisruthless ferocity, has sacrificed them as a bait for one of his mostabominable and knavish plots? Poor little Serbia! With what magnificentheroism she has succeeded in defending herself against an enemy who didnot even shrink from the atrocious act of burning her capital at a timewhen it was peopled solely by women and children! Poor little Serbia,suddenly become a martyr, and sublime! I would willingly at least winback for her some French hearts which my last book may perhaps havealienated. And that is the sole purpose of this letter.XVABOVE ALL LET US NEVER FORGET! _August 1st, 1915._A year ago to-day began that shameful violation of Belgian territory. Inthe midst of these appalling horrors, time, it seems, has hastened stillmore in its bewildered flight, and already we have reached theanniversary of that foul deed, the blackest that has ever defiled thehistory of the human race. This crime was committed after long,hypocritical premeditation, and no pang of remorse, no vestige of shame,caused those myriads of accomplices to stay their hands. It is a crimethat leaves with us, in addition to immeasurable mourning, an impressionof infinite sadness and discouragement, because it proves that one ofthe greatest countries in Europe is hopelessly bankrupt of all that menhave agreed to call honour, civilisation, and progress. The barbarianonslaughts of ancient days were not only a thousand times lessmurderous, but, let it be specially noted, incomparably less revoltingin character. There were certain dastardly deeds, certain acts ofprofanation, certain lies, at which those hordes that came to us fromAsia hesitated; an instinctive reverence still restrained them; and,moreover, in those times they did not destroy with such impudentcynicism, invoking the God of Christians in a burlesque pathos ofprayer!Thus in our own day has arisen a grisly Emperor, with a pack ofprincelings, his own progeny, a litter of wolves, whose most savage andat the same time most cowardly representative wears a death's head uponhis helmet; and generals and millions of Germans have been found readyto unite, after a calculated preparation of nearly half a century, incommitting this same preliminary crime, the forerunner of so manyothers, and by way of prelude, to crush ignobly in their advance alittle nation whom they had deemed without defence.But lo! the little nation arose, quivering with sacred indignation, andattempted to check the great barbarism, suddenly unmasked; to check itfor at least a few days, even at the cost of a seemingly inevitable doomof annihilation.What starry crowns can history award worthy of that Belgian nation andof their King, who did not fear to bid them set themselves there as abarrier.King Albert of Belgium, dispossessed to-day of his all and banished to ahamlet--what tribute of admiration and homage can we offer him worthy ofhis acceptance and sufficiently enduring? Upon tablets of flawlessmarble let us carve his name in deep letters so that it may be wellinsured against the fugitiveness of our French memories, which, alas!have sometimes proved a little untrustworthy, at least in face of theage-long infamies of Germany. May we remember for ever, we, and even ourfar distant posterity, that to save civilised Europe, and especially ourown country of France, King Albert did not for one moment shrink fromthose sheer, unconditional sacrifices which seemed beyond humanstrength. Spurning the tempting compromises offered by that monstrousemperor, he has fulfilled to the end his duty of loyal hero with a calmsmile, as if nothing were more natural. And so perfect is his modestythat he is surprised if he is told that he has been sublime.As for Queen Elizabeth, let each one of us dedicate to her a shrine inhis soul. One of the most dreaded duties that falls almost invariably tothe lot of queens is having to reign over adopted countries while exiledfrom their own. In the special case of this young martyred queen, thisdoom of exile which has befallen her, and many other queens, must be afar more exquisite torture, added to all the other evils endured, for acrushing fatality has come and separated her for ever from all who wereonce her own people, even from that noble woman, all devotion andcharity, who was her mother. This additional sorrow she bears with calmand lofty courage which never falters. She is by the King's side, hisconstant companion in the most terrible hours of all; a companion whoseenergy halts at nothing. And she is by the side of the poor who havelost their all by pillage or fire; by the side of the wounded who aresuffering or dying; to them, too, she is a companion, comforting thelowliest with her adorable simplicity, shedding on all the increasingbounty of her exquisite compassion. Oh, may she be blest, reverenced,and glorified! And for her altar, dedicated within our souls, let uschoose very rare, very delicate flowers, like unto herself.XVITHE INN OF THE GOOD SAMARITAN _August, 1915._In spite of the kindly welcome which the visitor receives and awholesome spirit of gaiety which never fails, it is an inn that I cannothonestly recommend without reserve.In the first place it is somewhat difficult of access, so much so thatladies are never admitted. To climb up to it--for it is perched veryhigh--the traveller must needs make his way for hours through ancientforests which the axe had spared until a very few months ago, alongunknown paths winding at steep gradients; among giant trees, pines orlarches, felled yesterday, which still lie about in all directions;paths that are concealed by close-growing greenery with such jealouscare that in the few open spaces occurring here and there trees havebeen planted right into the ground, trees uprooted elsewhere, and whichare here only to hide the wayfarer behind their dying branches. It maybe supposed that on the neighbouring hills sharp eyes, unfriendly eyes,are watching, which necessitate all these precautions.But there are many people on the road through those forests, whichseemed at first sight virgin. Viewing from a little distance all thesemountains covered with the same strong growth of forest, so luxuriant,and everywhere so alike in appearance, who would imagine that theysheltered whole tribes? And such strange tribes, evidently survivors ofan entirely prehistoric race of men, and in the anomalous position ofhaving no women-folk. Here are nothing but men, and men all dressedalike, with a singular fancy for uniformity, in old, faded, woollengreat-coats of horizon blue. They have not paid much attention to theirhair or beards, and they have almost the appearance of brigands, exceptthat they all have such pleasant faces and such kindly smiles for thewayfarer that they inspire no terror. So far from this he is temptedrather to stop and shake hands with them. But what curious littledwellings they have built, some isolated, some grouped together into avillage! Some of them are quite lightly constructed of planks of woodand are covered over with branches of pine, and within are mattresses ofleaves that serve for beds. Some are underground, grim as caves oftroglodytes, and the approach to them is protected by huge masses ofrock, doubtless their defence against formidable wild beasts hauntingthe neighbourhood. And these dwellings are always close to one of theinnumerable streams of clear water which rush down babbling from theheights, among pink flowers and mosses--for these miniature waterfallsare many, and all these mountains are full of the pleasant music ofrunning water. From time to time, to be sure, other sounds are heard,hollow sounds of evil import, detonations on the right or the left,which the echoes prolong. Can it be that there is artillery concealedalmost everywhere throughout the forest? What want of taste, thus todisturb the symphony of the springs.They have probably just arrived here, these savage tribes, dressed ingreyish blue; they are recent settlers, for all their arrangements arenew and improvised, and so likewise is the interminable winding roadwhich they have laid out, and which to-day our motor cars, with the helpof a little goodwill, manage to climb so rapidly.One of the peculiarities of these hidden villages which crouch in theshade of the lofty forest trees is that each has its own cemetery,tenderly cared for, so close that it almost borders on the dwellings, asif the living were anxious not to sever their comradeship with the dead.But how comes it that death is so frequent among these limpid streams,in a region where the air is so invigorating and so pure? These tombs,so disquieting in their disproportionate numbers, are ranged in rows,all with the same humble crosses of wood. They have borders of fernscarefully watered, or of little pebbles, well selected. Flowers such asthrive in shady places and are common in these parts, shoot up theirpretty pink spikes all around, and the whole scene is steeped in thegreen translucent twilight which envelops the whole mountain, thetwilight of these unchanging trees, pines and larches, stretching awayinto infinity, crowded together like wheat in a field, tall and straightlike gigantic masts.In our haste to reach that Inn of the Good Samaritan, which is ourdestination, we keep on climbing at a rapid pace, notwithstandingacute-angled corners where our cars have to back before they can effectthe turn, and other awkward places where our cars slip on the wet soil,skid, and come to a stop.These tribes, so primitive in appearance, through whose midst we havebeen travelling since the morning, seem to be concentrating theirenergies especially on making these roads, which, one would think,cannot really be necessary to their simple mode of existence. In ouronward course we meet nearly all these men, working with might and main,with axes, shovels, stakes and picks, hurrying as if the task wereurgent. They stand erect for a moment to salute us, smiling a littlewith touching and respectful familiarity, and then they bend down againto their arduous work, levelling, enlarging, timbering, or digging outroots that are in the way, and rocks that encroach. And when we weretold that it is scarcely ten months since they began this exhaustingwork in the midst of forest, virgin hitherto, we are fain to believethat all the Genii of the mountains have roused themselves and lenttheir magic help.Oh! what tribute of admiration mingled with emotion do we owe to thesemen, likewise, the builders of roads, our gallant territorials, who seemto be playing at wild men of the woods. They have revived for us themiracles of the Roman Legions who so speedily opened up roads for theirarmies through the forests of Gaul. Thanks to their prodigious labour,performed without a break, without a murmur, the conditions of warfarein this region, only yesterday still inaccessible, will be radicallychanged for the benefit of our dear soldiers. Everything will reach themon the heights ten times more expeditiously than before--arms, avengingshells, rations; and in a few hours the seriously wounded will be gentlydriven down in carriages to comfortable field hospitals in the plains.Roughly speaking at an altitude of about fourteen or fifteen hundredmetres, the ancient forest with its arching trees ends abruptly. The skyis deep blue above our heads, and infinite horizons unfold around ustheir great spectacular display of illusive images. The air is veryclear and pure to-day in honour of our arrival, and it is somarvellously transparent that we miss no detail of the most distantlandscapes.We are told that we have reached the plateau where stands thathospitable inn; it is, however, not yet in sight. But the plateauitself, where is it situated, in which country of the world? In theforeground around us and below nothing is visible except summitsuniformly wooded with trees of the same species; this brings back tomind those great, monstrous expanses of forest which must have coveredthe entire earth in the beginning of our geological period, but it ischaracteristic of no particular country or epoch of history. In thedistance, it is true, there are signs of a more tell-tale nature. Thusyonder, on the horizon, that succession of mountains, all mantled withthe same dark verdure, bears a close resemblance to the Black Forest;that chain of glaciers over there, silhouetting so clearly against thehorizon its ridges of rosy crystal, might well be taken for the Alps;and that peak in particular is too strikingly like the Jungfrau toadmit of any doubt. But I may not be more definite in my description; Iwill merely say that those bluish plains in the East, rolling away atour feet like a great sea, were but lately French, and are now about tobecome French once more.How spacious is this plateau, and how naked it stands among all thoseother summits mantled with trees. Here there is not even brushwood, fordoubtless the winter winds rage too fiercely; here nothing grows butshort, thick grass and little stunted plants with insignificant flowers.It is ecstasy to breathe here in this delicious intoxication of pure airand of spaciousness and light. And yet there is some vague sense oftragedy about the place, due perhaps to those great round holes, freshlymade; to those cruel clefts with which here and there the earth is rent.What can have fallen here from the sky, leaving such scars on the levelsurface? We are warned, moreover, that monstrous birds of a verydangerous kind, with iron muscles, often come and hover about overheadin that fair blue sky. And from time to time a cannon shot from someinvisible battery comes to disturb the impressive silence andreverberates in the valleys below; and then comes, long drawn out, thewhirring of a shell, like a flight of partridges going past.We notice some French soldiers, Alpine _chasseurs_, or cavalry on theirhorses, scattered in groups about this plain, as it may be called,situated at such an altitude. At this moment all lift their heads andlook in the same direction; this is because one of those great dangerousbirds has just been signalled; it is flying proudly, remote in the opensky, in the clear blue. But immediately it is pursued by white clouds,quite miniature clouds, which give the effect of being createdinstantaneously, only to vanish as quickly--little explosions of whitecotton wool, one might say--and it seems impossible that they should befreighted with death. However, that evil bird has understood; he isaware that good marksmen are aiming at him, and he turns back on hastywing, while our soldiers gaily burst out laughing.And the inn? It lies just in front of us, a few hundred paces away; itis that greyish hut with its gay tricolour floating on the light breezeof these altitudes, but near it stands a very lofty cross of pine-wood,four or five yards high, stretching out its arms as in solemn warning.The fact is, I must admit, that people die very frequently at this Innof the Good Samaritan or in its neighbourhood, and it is for this reasonthat in the beginning I recommended it with reserve. It is surprising,is it not, in such health-giving air? But the truth of it isindisputable, and it has been necessary hurriedly to attach to it acemetery whose existence this tall cross of pine proclaims from afar totravellers.Yes, many men die here, but they die so nobly, a death of all deathsmost desirable--each according to his own temperament, according to thenature of his soul: some in the calm serenity of duty done, others inmagnificent exaltation, but all in glory.Can this be the famous inn--in other words the dwelling of thoseofficers who command this outpost, and where their friends on rare andbrief visits, liaison officers, bearers of dispatches, etc., are sure offinding such cordial and genial hospitality--this modest hutting builtof planks? So it is, and that there may be no mistake, there is animposing signboard in the fashion of old times. Shaped like a shield,it hangs from an iron rod and bears the inscription, "Inn of the GoodSamaritan." The legend is painted in ornamental letters, and the humourof it is irresistible among such Crusoe-like destitution. Doubtless oneday some officer in a specially happy mood thought of this jest as awelcome for comrades coming thither on special duty. Naturally he foundat once among his men one who was a carpenter and another a decorator incivil life, both very much amused at being ordered to put thisunpremeditated idea forthwith into execution.The furniture of the inn is very rough and ready, if the truth be told,and the wall of planks just shelters you from the snow or rain, but fromthe wind hardly, and from shells not at all. But one fills one's lungsto the full with the air that reaches one through the little windows,and from the threshold, looking downwards, there is a marvellousbird's-eye view of great forests, of an unending chain of glaciers,clear as crystal, of unbounded distances, and even over the tops ofclouds.Ah well! all along the battle front there are such Inns of the GoodSamaritan. These others are perched less high, and they do not bear thesame name; indeed very often they have no name at all; but in all ofthem prevails the same spirit of kindly hospitality, firm confidence,smiling endurance and cheerful sacrifice. Here, as there, between twoshowers of shells, men are capable of amusing themselves with childishtrifles, so stout of heart are they, and if access were not forbidden onmilitary grounds I would invite all pessimists in the background, whohave doubts of France and of her destiny, to come here for a cure.And now, having seen the inn, let us pay a pious visit to the annex, theinevitable annex, alas! Around the wooden cross which dominates it is apiece of ground enclosed with an open fence, made of boughs of larchartistically intertwined. Within its bounds those tombs, too numerousalready, preserve something of a military aspect, ranged as they are insuch correct alignment and all with the same little crosses, adornedwith a wreath of greenery. The Cross! In spite of all infidelity,denial, scorn, the Cross still remains the sign to which a tenderinstinct of atavism recalls us at the approach of death. There is not atree, not a shrub, for none grow here: on the ground there is only theshort grass that grows upon this wind-swept plateau. An attempt has beenmade, to be sure, to make borders of certain stunted plants found in theneighbourhood, but rows of pebbles last best. And in five weeks or so,thick shrouds of snow will begin to cover up everything, until anotherspring succeeds the snows and the grass grows green again, in the midstof still deeper oblivion.Nevertheless let us not pity them, for they have had the better part,these young dead who rest there on that glorious mountain-top which isdestined to become once more, after the war, a solitude ineffably calm,high above forest, valley and plain.XVIIFOR THE RESCUE OF OUR WOUNDED _August, 1915._The preservation of the lives of our dear wounded, who day by day arestricken down upon the field of battle, depends nine times out of ten onthe rapidity with which they are carried in; on the gentleness andpromptness with which they are taken to the field hospitals, where theymay be put into comfortable beds and left in the care of all the kindhands that are waiting for them. This fact is not sufficiently wellknown; often it happens that wounds which would have been trifling havebecome septic and mortal because they have been left too long coveredwith inadequate, uncleanly bandages, or have trailed for many hours onthe earth or in the mud.In the first weeks of the war when we were taken unawares by thebarbarians' attack, treacherous and sudden as a thunderbolt, it was notbullets and shrapnel alone that killed the sons of France. Often, too,it happened that help was slow in arriving; sufficient haste could notbe made, and it was impossible to cope right at the beginning with theseshortcomings, in spite of much admirable devotion and ingenuity inmultiplying and improving the means of service. Since then helpers havepoured in from all sides; gifts have been showered with open hands;organisation has been created with loving zeal, and things are alreadyworking very well. But much still remains to be done, for the work isimmense and complex, and it is our duty to hold ourselves more than everin readiness, in anticipation of great final struggles for deliverance.Now a society is being formed for sending to the Front some freshsquadrons of fast motor-ambulances, furnished with cots and mattressesof improved design. Thus thousands more of our wounded will be laidimmediately between clean sheets, then brought into hospital with allspeed, without that delay which is a cause of gangrened wounds, withoutthose jolts that aggravate the pain of fractured bones and inflict yetmore grievous suffering on those dear bruised heads.But in spite of the first magnificent donations, a remainder of themoney has still to be found to complete the enterprise satisfactorily.And so I beseech all mothers, whose sons may fall at any moment; Ibeseech all those who have in the firing-line a kinsman dear to them; Ibeseech them to send their offerings without hesitation, withoutcalculation, so that soon, before the April battles begin, severalhundreds of those great life-saving ambulances may be ready to start,which will assuredly preserve for us a vast number of precious lives.XVIIIAT RHEIMS _August, 1915._On a beautiful August evening I am hastening in a motor car towardsRheims, one of our martyred towns, where I am hoping to find shelter forthe night before continuing my journey to the General Headquarters ofanother Army. In order to avoid military formalities I wish to enter thetown before the sun sets, and it is already too low for my liking.The evening is typical of one of our splendid French summers; the air isexquisitely clear, of a delightful, wholesome warmth, tempered with alight, refreshing breeze. On the hillsides of Champagne the beautifulvines on which the grapes are ripening spread a uniform expanse of greencarpet, and there are so many trees, so many flowers everywhere,gardens in all the villages, and roses climbing up all the walls.To-day the cannon is heard no more, and one would be tempted to forgetthat the barbarians are there close at hand if there were not so manyimprovised cemeteries all along the road. Everywhere there are theselittle graves of soldiers, all alike, which are now to be found from endto end of our beloved France, all along the battle front; their simplecrosses of wood are ranged in straight lines as if for a parade, topped,some of them, with a wreath; others still more pathetically with asimple service-cap, red or blue, falling to rags. We salute them as wepass.Among these glorious dead there are some whose kindred will seek themout and bring them back to the province of their birth later, when thebarbarians have gone away, while others, less favoured, will remainthere forever until the great final day of oblivion. But what masses offlowers people have already been at pains to plant there for them all.Around their resting-place there is a brave show of all shades ofbrilliant colour, dahlias, cannas, China asters, roses. Who hasundertaken this labour of love? Girls from the nearest villages? Orperhaps even their own brothers-in-arms, who dwell on the outskirtseverywhere like invisible subterranean tribes in these casemates, trenchshelters, dug-outs of every shape covered over with green branches?This region, you must know, is not very safe, and when we arrive at asection of the road which is too much exposed, a sentinel, especiallyposted there to give warning, instructs us to leave the high road for amoment, where we should run the risk of being seen and shelled, and totake some sheltered traverse behind the curtains of poplars.One of my soldier-chauffeurs suddenly turns round to say to me:"Oh look, sir, there is an Arab cemetery. They have put on each gravetheir little crescents instead of the cross."Here to be sure the humble _stelae_ of white wood are all topped withthe crescent of Islam, and this is something of a shock to us in thevery heart of France. Poor fellows, who died for our righteous cause, sofar from their mosques and their marabouts they sleep, and alas! withoutfacing Mecca, because they who laid them piously to rest did not knowthat this was to them a requisite of peaceful slumber! But the sameprofusion of flowers has been brought to them as to our own countrymen,and I need not say that we salute them likewise--a little late, perhaps,for we pass them so rapidly.We reach Rheims just before sunset, and here a sudden sadness chills us.All is silent and the streets almost deserted. The shops are closed,and some of the houses seem to gape at us with enormous holes in theirwalls.One of the infrequent wayfarers tells us that at the Hotel Golden Lion,Cathedral Square, we may still be able to find someone to take us in,and soon we are at the very foot of the noble ruin, which is stillenthroned as majestically as ever in the midst of the martyred town,dominating everything with its two towers of open stone-work. I stop mycar, the sound of whose rolling in such a place seems profanation; thesadness of ruins is intensified here into veritable anguish, and thesilence is such that instinctively we begin to talk softly, as if we hadalready entered the great church that has perished.The Golden Lion--but its panes of glass are broken, the doors standopen, the courtyard is deserted. I send one of my soldiers there,bidding him call, but not too loudly, in the midst of all this mournfulmeditation. He returns; he has received no reply and has seen holes inthe walls. The house is deserted. We must seek elsewhere.It is twilight. A golden after-glow still lingers around the magnificentsummits of the towers, while the base is wrapped in shadow. Oh, thecathedral, the marvellous cathedral! what a work of destruction thebarbarians have continued to accomplish here since my pilgrimage of lastNovember. It had ever been a lace-work of stone, and now it is nothingbut a lace-work torn in tatters, pierced with a thousand holes. By whatmiracle does it still hold together? It seems as if to-day the leastshock, a breath of wind perhaps, would suffice to cause it to crumbleaway, to resolve itself, as it were, into scattered atoms. How can itever be repaired? What scaffolding could one dare to let lean againstthose unstable ruins. In an attempt to afford it yet a little protectionsandbags have been piled up, mountain high, against the pillars of theporticoes, the same precaution that has been taken in the case of St.Mark's in Venice, of Milan, of all those inimitable masterpieces of pastages which are menaced by the refined culture of Germany. Here theprecautions are vain; it is too late, the cathedral is lost, and ourhearts are wrung with sorrow and indignation as we look this eveningupon this sacred relic of our past, our art, and our faith, in its deaththroes and its abandonment. Ah, what savages! And to feel that they arestill there, close at hand, capable of giving it at any hour its _coupde gr?ce_.To bid it farewell, perhaps a last farewell, we will walk around itslowly with solemn tread, in the midst of this deathlike silence whichseems to grow more intense as the light fails.But suddenly, just as we are passing the ruins of the episcopal palace,we hear a prelude of sound, a tremendous, hollow uproar, something likethe rumbling of a terrible thunderstorm, near at hand and unceasing. Andyet the evening sky is so clear! Ah yes, we were warned, we know whenceit comes; it is the bombardment of our heavy artillery, which wasexpected half an hour after sunset, directed at the barbarians'trenches. This is a change for us from the silence, this cataclysmalmusic, and it contributes to our walk a different kind of sadness,another form of horror. And we continue to gaze at the wonderful stonecarving overhanging us--the bold little arches, the immense pointedarches, so frail and so exquisite. Indeed how does it all still holdtogether? Up above there are little columns which have lost their baseand remain, as it were, suspended in the air by their capitals. Thewindows are no more; the lovely rose-windows have been destroyed; thenave has huge fissures from top to bottom. In the twilight the wholecathedral assumes more and more its phantom-like aspect, and that noisewhich causes everything to vibrate is still increasing. It is a questionwhether so many vibrations will not bring about the final downfall ofthose too fragile carvings which hitherto have held on so persistentlyat such great heights above our heads.Here comes the first wayfarer in that solitude, a well-dressed person.He is hurrying, actually running."Do not stay there," he shouts to us; "do you not see that they aregoing to bombard?""But it is we, the French, who are firing. It is our own artillery.Come, do not run so fast.""I know very well that it is we, but each time the enemy revengethemselves on the cathedral. I tell you that there will be a rain ofshells here immediately. Look out for yourselves."He goes on. So much the better; it was kind of him to warn us, but hisjacket and his billy-cock jarred upon the melancholy grandeur of thescene.Where a street opens into the square two girls now appear; they stop andhesitate. Evidently they are aware, these two, that the barbarians havea habit of taking a noble revenge upon the cathedral, and that shellsare about to fall. But doubtless they have to cross this square in orderto reach their home, to get down into their cellar. Will they have time?They are graceful and pretty, fair, bare-headed, with their hairarranged in simple bands. They gaze into the air with their eyes raisedwell up towards the heavens, perhaps to see if death is beginning topass that way, but more likely to send up thither a prayer. I know notwhat last brightness of the twilight, in spite of the encroaching gloom,illumines so delightfully their two upturned faces, and they look likesaints in stained-glass windows. Both make the sign of the cross, andthen they make up their minds, and hand in hand they run across thesquare. With their religious gestures, their faces expressing anxiety,yet courage too and defiance, they suddenly seem to me charming symbolsof the girlhood of France; they run away, indeed, but it is clear thatthey would remain without fear if there were some wounded man to carryaway, some duty to perform. And their flight seems very airy in themidst of this tremendous uproar like the end of the world.We are going away too, for it is wiser. In the streets there are a veryfew wayfarers who are running to take shelter, running with their backshunched up, although nothing is falling yet, like people withoutumbrellas surprised by a shower. One of them, who nevertheless does notmind stopping, points out to us the last hotel still remaining open, a"perfectly safe" hotel, he says, over there in a quarter of the townwhere no shell has ever fallen.God forbid that I should dream of laughing at them, or fail to admire asmuch as it deserves their persistent and calm heroism in remaining here,in defiance of everything, in their beloved town, which is sufferingmore and more mutilations. But who would not be amused at that instinctwhich causes the majority of mankind to hunch their backs against hailof whatever description? And then, is it because the air is fresh andsoft and it is good to be alive that after the unspeakable heartache atthe sight of the cathedral and the passion verging on tears, a calm ofreaction sets in and in that moment everything amuses me?At the end of a quiet street, where the noise of the cannonade ismuffled, in the distance, we find the hotel which was recommended to us."Rooms," says the host, very pleasantly, standing on his doorstep, "oh,as many as you like, the whole hotel if you wish, for you willunderstand that in times such as these travellers---- And yet as far asshells go you have nothing to fear here."An appalling din interrupts his sentence. All the windows in the frontof the house are shivered to fragments, together with tiles, plaster,branches of trees. In his haste to run away and hide he misses the stepon the threshold and falls down flat on his face. A dog who was comingalong jumps upon him, full of importance, recalling him to order with afierce bark. A cat, sprung from I know not where, flies through spacelike an aerolith, uses my shoulder for a jumping-off place, and isswallowed up by the mouth of a cellar. But words are too tedious forthat series of catastrophes, which lasts scarcely as long as twolightning flashes. And they continue to bombard us with admirableregularity, as if timing themselves with a metronome; the wall of thehouse is already riddled with scars.It is very wrong, I admit, to take these things as a jest, and indeedwith me that impression is only superficial, physical, I might say; thatwhich endures in the depth of my soul is indignation, anguish, pity. Butat this entry which the Germans made into our hotel, that peaceful spot,with flourish of their great orchestra, in the presence of so manysurprises, how retain one's dignity? There is a fair number of littleshells, it seems, but no heavy shells; they travel with their longwhistling sound, and burst with a harsh din."Into the cellar, gentlemen," cries the innkeeper, who has pickedhimself up unhurt. Apparently there is nothing else to be done. I shouldhave come to that conclusion myself. So I turn round to order in mythree soldiers too, who had remained outside to look at a hole made byshrapnel in the body of the car. But upon my word I believe they arelaughing, the heartless wretches; and then I can restrain myself nolonger, I burst out laughing too.Yes, it is very wrong of us, for presently there will be bloodshed anddeath. But how resist the humour of it all: the good man fallen flat onhis face, the self-importance of the dog, who thought he must put a stopto the situation, and especially the cat, the cat swallowed up by anair-hole after showing us as a supreme exhibition of flight its littlehindquarters with its tail in the air.XIXTHE DEATH-BEARING GAS _November, 1915._It is a place of horror, conceived, it might be thought by Dante. Theair is heavy, stifling; two or three nightlights, which seem to beafraid of shining too brightly, scarcely pierce the vaporous, overheateddarkness which exhales an odour of sweat and fever. Busy people arewhispering there anxiously, but the principal sound that is heard is anagonised gasping for breath. This gasping comes from a number of cots,in rows, touching one another, on which are lying human forms, theirchests heaving with rapid and laboured breathing, lifting the bedclothesas though the moment of the death-rattle had come.This is one of our advance field hospitals, improvised, as best mightbe, the day after one the most damnable abominations committed by theGermans. The nature of their affliction made it impossible to transferall these sons of France, from whom seems to come the noise of thedeath-rattle without hope of recovery, to a place farther away. Thislarge hall with dilapidated walls was yesterday a wine cellar forstoring barrels of champagne; these cots--about fifty in number--weremade in feverish haste of branches which still retain their bark, andthey resemble the kind of furniture in our gardens that we call rustic.But why is there this heat, in which it is almost impossible to draw anatural breath, pouring out from those stoves? The reason for it is thatit is never hot enough for the lungs of persons who have beenasphyxiated. And this darkness: wherefore this darkness, which gives aDantesque aspect to this place of torment, and which must be such ahindrance to the gentle, white-gowned nurses? It is because thebarbarians are there in their burrows, quite near this village, with theshattering of whose houses and church spire they have more than onceamused themselves; and if, at the gloomy fall of a November night,through their ever watchful field-glasses, they saw a range of lightedwindows indicating a long hall, they would at once guess that there wasa field hospital, and shells would be showered down upon the humblecots. It is well known, this preference of theirs for shellinghospitals, Red Cross convoys, churches.And so there is scarcely light enough to see through that misty vapourwhich rises from water boiling in pans. Every minute nurses fetch hugeblack balloons, and the patients nearest to suffocation stretch outtheir poor hands for them; they contain oxygen, which eases the lungsand alleviates the suffering. Many of them have these black balloonsresting on chests panting for breath, and in their mouths they areholding eagerly the tube through which the life-saving gas escapes. Theyare like big children with feeding bottles; it adds a kind of grislyburlesque to these scenes of horror. Asphyxia has different effects upondifferent constitutions, and calls for variety in treatment. Some of thesufferers, lying almost naked on their beds, are covered withcupping-glasses, or painted all over with tincture of iodine. Otherseven--these alas! are very seriously affected indeed--others are allswollen, chest, arms, and face, and resemble toy figures of blown-upgold-beater's skin. Toy figures of gold-beater's skin, children withfeeding bottles--although these comparisons alone are true, yet indeedit seems almost sacrilege to make use of them when the heart is wrungwith anguish and you are ready to weep tears of pity and of wrath. Butmay these comparisons, brutal as they are, engrave themselves all themore deeply upon the minds of men by reason of their very unseemliness,to foster there for a still longer time indignant hatred and a thirstfor holy reprisals.For there is one man who spent a long time preparing all this for us,and this man still goes on living; he lives, and since remorse isdoubtless foreign to his vulturine soul, he does not even suffer, unlessit be rage at having missed his mark, at least for the present. Beforethus unloosing death upon the world he had coldly combined all hisplans, had foreseen everything."But nevertheless supposing," he said to himself, "my greatrhinoceros-like onrushes and my vast apparatus of carnage were by someimpossible chance to hurl itself in vain against a resistance toomagnificent? In that case I should dare perhaps, calculating on theweakness of neutral nations, I should dare perhaps to defy all the lawsof civilisation, and to use other means. At all hazards let us beprepared."And, to be sure, the onrush failed, and, timidly at first, fearinguniversal indignation, he tried asphyxiation after exerting himself, beit understood, to mislead public opinion, accusing, with his customarymendacity, France of having been the originator. His cynical hope wasjustified; there has been, alas! no general arousing of the humanconscience. No more at this than at earlier crimes--organised pillage,destruction of cathedrals, outrage, massacres of children andwomen--have the neutral nations stirred; it seems indeed as if thecrafty, ferocious, deathly look of his Gorgon-like or Medusa-like headhad frozen them all to the spot. And at the present hour in which I amwriting the last to be turned to stone by the Medusa glare of themonster is that unfortunate King of Greece, inconsistent and bungling,who is trembling on the brink of a precipice of most terrible crimes.That some nations remain neutral from fear, that indeed is comprehensiveenough; but that nations, otherwise held in the highest repute, canremain pro-German in sentiment, passes our understanding. By what artshave they been blinded, these nations; by what slanders, or by whatbribe?Our dear soldiers with their seared lungs, gasping on their "rustic"cots, seem grateful when, following in the major's footsteps, someoneapproaches them, and they look at the visitor with gentle eyes when hetakes their hand. Here is a man all swollen, doubtless unrecognisable bythose who had only seen him before this terrible turgidity, and if youtouch his poor, distended cheeks however lightly, the fingers feel thecrackling of the gases that have infiltrated between skin and flesh."Come, he is better than he was this morning," says the major, and in alow voice meant for the nurse's ear, he continues, "This man too, nurse,I am beginning to think that we shall save. But you must not leave himalone for one moment on any account."Oh, what unnecessary advice, for she has not the smallest intention ofleaving him alone, this white-gowned nurse, whose eyes have alreadyblack rings around them, the result of a watch of forty-eight hourswithout a break. Not one of them will be left alone, oh no! To be sureof this, it is sufficient to glance at all those young doctors and allthose nurses, somewhat exhausted, it is true, but so attentive andbrave, who will never let them out of their sight.And, thank heaven, nearly all of them will be saved.[2] As soon as theyare well enough to be moved they will be taken far away from thisGehenna at the Front, where the Kaiser's shells delight to hurlthemselves upon the dying. They will be put more comfortably to bed inquiet field hospitals, where indeed they will suffer greatly for a week,a fortnight, a month, but whence they will emerge without excessivedelay, better advised, more prudent, in haste to return once more to thebattle.It may be said that the scheme of gas attacks has failed, like thatother scheme of attacks in great savage onrushes. The result was notwhat the Gorgon's head had expected, and yet with what accuratecalculation the time for these attacks has been selected, always at themost favourable moment. It is well knows that the Germans, past mastersof the art of spying, and always informed of everything, never hesitateto choose for their attacks of whatever kind, days of relief, hours whennewcomers in the trenches opposite to them are still in the disorder oftheir arrival. So on the evening on which the last crime was committedsix hundred of our men had just taken up their advanced position after along and tiring march. Suddenly in the midst of a volley of shells whichsurprised them in their first sleep, they could distinguish, here andthere, little cautious sibilant sounds, as if made stealthily by sirens.This was the death-bearing gas which was diffusing itself around them,spreading out its thick, gloomy, grey clouds. At the same time theirsignal lights suddenly ceased to throw out through that mist more than alittle dim illumination. Then distracted, already suffocating, theyremembered too late those masks which had been given them, and in whichin any case they had no faith. They were awkward in putting them on;some of them, feeling the scorching of their bronchia, urged by anirresistible impulse of self-preservation, even yielded to a desire torun, and it was these who were most terribly affected, for, breathingdeeply in the effort of running, they inhaled vast quantities ofchlorine gas. But another time they will not let themselves be caught inthis way, neither these nor any others of our soldiers. Wearing maskshermetically closed, they will station themselves immovably around pilesof wood, prepared beforehand, whence sudden flames will arise,neutralising the poisons in the air, and the upshot of it all will behardly more than an uncomfortable hour, unpleasant while it lasts, butalmost always without fatal result. It is true that in those accurseddens which are their laboratories, Germany's learned men, convinced nowthat the neutral nations will acquiesce in anything, are making everyeffort to discover worse poisons still for us, but until they have foundthem, as on so many other occasions, the Gorgon gaze will have missedits mark. So much is certain. We, alas! have as yet found no means ofreturning them a sufficiently cruel equivalent; we have no defence otherthan the protective mask, which, however, is being perfected day by day.And, after all, in the eyes of neutral nations, if they still have eyesto see, it is perhaps more dignified to make use of nothing else. At thesame time, how very different our position would be if we succeeded inasphyxiating them too, these plunderers, assassins, aggressors, whobroke into our country like burglars, and who, despairing of everbursting through our lines, attempt to smoke us out ignominiously inour own home, in our own dear country of France, as they might smoke outrabbits in their burrows, rats in their holes. No language of man hadever anticipated such transcendent acts of infamy which would revolt themost degraded cannibals, and so there are no names for such acts. Ourpoor victims of their gas, panting for breath in their cots, howardently I wish that I could exhibit them to all the world, to theirfathers, sons, and brothers, to excite in them a paroxysm of sacredindignation and thirst for vengeance. Yes, exhibit them everywhere, tolet everyone hear the death-rattle, even those neutral nations who areso impassive; to convict of obtuseness or of crime all those obstinatePacifists, and to sound throughout the world the alarm against thebarbarians who are in eruption all over Europe.FOOTNOTE:[2] Of six hundred who were gassed that night, more than five hundredare out of danger.XXALL-SOULS' DAY WITH THE ARMIES AT THE FRONT _2nd November, 1915._Two or three days ago all along the front of the battle began the greatfestival in honour of our soldiers' graves. No matter where they lie,grouped around churches in the ordinary village cemeteries, ranged inrows with military precision in little special cemeteries consecrated tothem, or even situated singly at the side of a road, in a corner of awood, or alone and lost in the midst of fields, everywhere, seen fromafar off, under the gloomy sky of these November days and against thegreyish background of the countryside, they attract the eyes with thebrilliant newness of their decorations. Each grave is decked with atleast four fine tricolours, their flagstaffs planted in the ground, twoat the head, two at the foot, and an infinite number of flowers andwreaths tied with ribbons. It was the officers and the comrades of ourdead soldiers who subscribed together to give them all this, and who,sometimes in spite of great difficulties, sent to the neighbouring townsfor the decorations, and then arranged them all with such pious care,even on the graves of those of whom little was known, and of those poormen, few in number, whose very names have perished.Here in this village where I chance to be staying in the course of myjourney, the cemetery is built in terraces, and forms an amphitheatre onthe side of a hill, and the corner dedicated to the soldiers is high up,visible to all the neighbourhood. There are fifteen of these graves,each with its four flags, making sixty flags in all. And in the bitterautumn wind they flutter almost gaily, unceasingly, all these strips ofbunting, they wanton in the air, intermingle, and their bright coloursshine out more conspicuously. For the matter of that, no three othercolours in combination set off one another so gaily as our three dearcolours of France.And these tombs, moreover, have such quantities and quantities offlowers, dahlias, chrysanthemums and roses, that they seem to be coveredwith one and the same richly decorated carpet. During these days offestival, the rest of the cemetery is also very full of flowers, but itlooks dull and colourless compared with that corner sacred to oursoldiers. It is this favoured corner which is visible at first sight,from a distance, from all the roads leading to the village, andwayfarers would ask themselves:"What festival can they be celebrating with all those flags flutteringin the air?"Two days before, I remember coming to see the preparations for theseingenious decorations. _Chasseurs_, with their hands full of bunches offlowers, were working there rapidly and thoughtfully, speaking in lowtones. In the distance could be heard, though much muffled, theorchestra of the incessant battle in which the magnificent, great voiceof our heavy artillery predominated; it seemed like the muttering of astorm all along the distant horizon. It was very gloomy in thatcemetery, under an overcast sky, whence fell a semi-darkness alreadywintry in aspect. But the zeal of these _chasseurs_, who were deckingthe tombs so well, must yet have solaced the souls of the youthful deadwith a little tender gaiety.And what beautiful, moving Masses were sung for them all along the fronton the day of their festival. All the little churches--those at leastthat the barbarians have not destroyed--had been decorated that daywith all that the villages could muster in the way of flags, banners,tapers and wreaths. And they were too small, these churches, to hold thecrowds that flocked to them. There were officers, soldiers, civilpopulation, women mostly in mourning, whose eyes under their veils werereddened with secret tears. Some of the soldiers, of their own accord,desiring to honour the souls of their comrades with a very specialconcert, had taken pains to learn the Judgment hymns, the _Dies ir?_,the _De profundis_, and their voices, unskilfully led though they were,vibrated impressively in the unison of plain-song, which the organaccompanied. Indeed what could better prepare them for the supremesacrifice and for a death nobly met than these prayers, this music andeven these flowers?They sang this morning, these improvised choristers, with a solemntransport. Then after Mass, in spite of the icy rain and the muddyroads, the crowds that issued from each church in procession betookthemselves to the cemeteries, in attendance on the priests bearing thesolemn crucifix. And again, as on the day of the funerals, all thelittle graves were blessed.If I record these scenes, it is for the sake of mothers and wives andfamilies, living far from here in other provinces of France, whosehearts no doubt grow heavier at the thought that the grave of someonedear to them may be neglected and very soon become unrecognisable. Ohlet them take comfort! In spite of the simplicity of these little woodencrosses, almost all alike, nowhere are they cared for and honoured sowell as at the front; in no other place could they receive such touchinghomage, such tribute of flowers, of prayers, of tears.XXITHE CROSS OF HONOUR FOR THE FLAG OF THE NAVAL BRIGADE!Paris, which is above all other towns famous for its noble impulses, wasf?ting some days ago our Naval Brigade from the Yser--or rather the lastsurvivors of the heroic Brigade, the few who had been able to return. Itwas well done thus to make much of them, but alas! how soon it will allbe forgotten.To-day, in honour of the Brigade, of which three-quarters wereannihilated, our well-beloved and eminent Minister of Marine, AdmiralLacaze, has given instructions that the glorious Order of the Day, inwhich the commander-in-chief bade them farewell, should be posted up onall our ships of war. It ends with these words:"The valiant conduct of the Naval Brigade on the plains of the Yser, atNieuport, and at Dixmude will always be to the Forces an example ofwarlike zeal and devotion to their country. The Naval Brigade and theirofficers may well be proud of this new and glorious page which they haveinscribed on their records."Indeed this Order posted up on board the ships will be more permanentthan the welcome that Paris gave them; but alas! this likewise will beforgotten, too soon forgotten.As it was decided when this Brigade of picked men were disbanded topreserve their flag for the Army so that their memory might beperpetuated, could not the Cross of Honour be attached to a flag of suchdistinction? This idea, it seems, has been entertained, but perhaps--Iknow nothing of the matter--there is some impeding clause in theregulations, for I seem to remember to have read there that before itcan be decorated with the Cross a flag must have been unfurled on theoccasion of a great offensive or a splendid feat of arms. Now the caseof our Naval Brigade is so unprecedented that no regulations could havemade provision for it. How could they have unfurled their flag in thatunparalleled conflict since in those days they still had none? ThisBrigade, hastily organised on the spur of the moment, was thrown intothe firing-line without that incomparable symbol, the tricolour, whichall the other brigades possessed before they set out. It was not untillater, long after the great exploits with which they won their spurs,that their flag was presented to them, at a time when they had asomewhat less terrible part to play. In such circumstances I venture tohope that the regulation may be relaxed in their favour. If this flag oftheirs were decorated, all the sailors who received it with such joyover there, that day when all its three colours were still new andbrilliant, would feel themselves distinguished at the same time as theflag itself, and later, in future days, when their descendants came tolook at it, poor, sacred, tattered remnant, tarnished and dusty, thisCross, which had been awarded, would speak to them more eloquently ofsublime deeds done on the Belgian Front.They can never be too highly honoured, the Naval Brigade, of whom it hasbeen officially recorded:"No troops in any age have ever done what these have done."And here is an extract from a letter which, on the day when they weredisbanded, after reviewing them for the last time, General H?ly d'Oisselwrote to the captain of the _Paillet_, who was then commanding theBrigade, a letter which was read to all the sailors, drawn up in line,and which brought tears to their honest eyes:"I should be happy to preserve the Brigade State (the terrible roll ofdead, officers, non-commissioned officers, and men) as an eloquentwitness of the immense services rendered to the country by thisadmirable Brigade, which the land forces are proud to have had in theirranks, and which I, personally, am proud to have had under my commandduring more than a year of the war."This morning when I saw your magnificent sailors filing past with suchcheerfulness and precision, I could not but feel a poignant emotion whenI reflected that it was for the last time."       *       *       *       *       *Indeed it was just there, in the blood-drenched marshes of the Yser,that for the second time, and finally, the onrush of the barbarians wasbroken. The two great decisive reverses suffered by that wretchedEmperor of the blood-stained hands were, everyone knows, the retreatfrom the Marne and then that check in Belgium, in the face of a verysmall handful of sailors of superhuman tenacity.They were not specially selected, these men sublimely stubborn; no, theywere the first to hand, chosen hastily from among the men in our ports.They had not even gone away to fight, but quietly to police the streetsof Paris, and from Paris, one fine day, in the extremity of our peril,they were dispatched to the Yser, without preparation, inadequatelyequipped, with barely sufficient food, and told simply:"Let yourselves be killed, but do not suffer the German beast to pass!At all costs resist for at least a week, to give us time to come to therescue."Now they held out, it will be remembered, indefinitely, in the midst ofa veritable inferno of fire, shrapnel, clamour, crumbling ruins, cold,rain, engulfing mud, and ever since that day when they brought to astandstill the onrush of the beast, France felt that she was savedindeed.Indeed, as a general rule, it is sufficient to take any honest fellowswhatsoever, and merely by putting a blue collar on them, you transformthem into heroes. In the Chinese expedition, among other instances, Ihave seen at close quarters the very same thing: a small handful of men,taken haphazard from one of our ships, commanded by very young officerswho had only just attained their first band of gold braid, and thisassembly of men, hastily mustered, suddenly became a force complete initself, admirable, united, disciplined, zealous, fearless, capable ofperforming within a couple of days prodigies of endurance and daring.Oh that Brigade of the Yser, whose destiny I just missed sharing! I hadplotted desperately, I admit, for the sake of being attached to it, andI was about to gain my end when an obstacle arose which I could neverhave foreseen and which excluded me inexorably. To have to renouncethis dream when it was almost within my grasp will be for me unto mylife's end a subject of burning and tormenting regret. But at least letme comfort myself a little by paying my tribute of admiration to thosewho were there. Let me at least have this little pleasure of working toglorify their memory. Therefore I herewith beg on their behalf--not onlyin my own name, for several of my comrades in the Navy associatethemselves in my prayer, comrades who were likewise not among them, thedisinterested nature of whose motives cannot consequently bequestioned--I beg herewith on their behalf almost confidently, althoughthe regulation may prove me in the wrong, that it may be accorded tothem, the distinction they have earned ten times over, at which no onecan take umbrage, and that a scrap of red ribbon be fastened to theirflag.XXIITHE ABSENT-MINDED PILGRIM _December, 1915._That day, during a lull in the fighting, the General gave me permissionto take a motor car for three or four hours to go and look for the graveof one of my nephews, who was struck down by a shell during ouroffensive in September.From imperfect information I gathered that he must be lying in a humbleemergency cemetery, improvised the day after a battle, some five or sixhundred yards away from the little town of T---- whose ruins, stillbombarded daily and becoming more and more shapeless, lie on the extremeborder of the French zone, quite close to the German trenches. But I didnot know how he had been buried, whether in a common grave, or beneath alittle cross inscribed with his name, which would make it possible toreturn later and remove the body."To get to T----," the General had said, "make a _d?tour_ by the villageof B----, that is the way by which you will run the least risk of beingshelled. At B----, if the circumstances of the day seemed dangerous, asentinel would stop you as usual; then you would hide your motor behinda wall, and you could continue your journey on foot--with the usualprecautions, you will understand."Osman, my faithful servant, who has shared my adventures in many landsfor twenty years, and who, like everyone else, is a soldier, aterritorial, had a cousin killed in the same fight as my nephew, and heis buried, so he was told, in the same cemetery. So he has obtainedpermission to accompany me on my pious quest.To-day all that gloomy countryside is powdered with hoar-frost and overit hangs an icy mist; nothing can be distinguished sixty yards ahead,and the trees which border the roads fade away, enveloped in great whiteshrouds.After driving for half an hour we are right in the thick of that infernoof the battle front, which, from habit, we no longer notice, though itwas at first so impressive and will later on be so strange to remember.All is chaos, hurly-burly; all is overthrown, shattered; walls arecalcined, houses eviscerated, villages in ruins on the ground; but life,intense and magnificent, informs both roads and ruins. There are nolonger any civilians, no women or children; nothing but soldiers,horses, and motor cars; of these, however, there are such numbers thatprogress is difficult. Two streams of traffic, almost uninterrupted,divide the roads between them; on one side is everything that is on itsway to the firing-line; on the other side everything that is on its wayback. Great lorries bringing up artillery, munitions, rations, and RedCross supplies jolt along on the frozen cart ruts with a great din ofclanging iron, rivalling the noise, more or less distant, of theincessant cannonade. And the faces of all these different men, who aredriving along on these enormous rolling machines, express health andresolution. There are our own soldiers, now wearing those bluish helmetsof steel, which recall the ancient casque and bring us back to the oldtimes; there are yellow-bearded Russians, Indians, and Bedouins withswarthy complexions. All these crowds are continuously travelling to andfro along the road, dragging all sorts of curious things heaped up inpiles. There are also thousands of horses, picking their way among thehuge wheels of innumerable vehicles. Indeed it might be thought thatthis was a general migration of mankind after some cataclysm hadsubverted the surface of the earth. Not so! This is simply the work ofthe great Accursed, who has unloosed German barbarism. He took fortyyears to prepare the monstrous _coup_, which, according to hisreckoning, was to establish the apotheosis of his insane pride, butwhich will result in nothing but his downfall, in a sea of blood, in themidst of the detestation of the world.There is certainly a remarkable lull here to-day, for even when therolling of the iron lorries ceases for a moment, the rumbling of thecannon does not make itself heard. The cause of this must be the fog andin other respects, too, how greatly it is to our advantage, this kindlymist; it seems as if we had ordered it.Here we are at the village of B----, which, the General had expected,would be the terminus of our journey by car. Here the throng is chieflyconcentrated among shattered walls and burnt roofs; helmets andovercoats of "horizon" blue are crowding and bustling about. And everyplace is blocked with these heavy wagons, which, as soon as they arrive,come to a halt, or take up a convenient position for starting on thereturn journey. For here we have reached the border of that regionwhere, as a rule, men can only venture by night, on foot, with muffledtread; or if by day, one by one, so that they may not be observed byGerman field-glasses. At the end of the village, then, signs of lifecease abruptly, as if cut off clean with the stroke of an axe. Suddenlythere are no more people. The road, it is true, leads to that town ofT----, which is our destination; but all at once it is quite empty andsilent. Bordered by its two rows of skeleton trees, white with frost, itplunges into the dense white fog with an air of mystery, and it wouldnot be surprising to read here, on some signpost, "Road to Death."We hesitate for a moment. I do not, however, see any of the signalswhich are customary at places where a halt must be made, nor the usuallittle red flag, nor the warning sentry, holding his rifle above hishead with both hands. So the road is considered practicable to-day, andwhen I ask if indeed it leads to T----, some sergeants who are theresalute and confine their answer to the word "Yes, sir," without showingany surprise. So all that we have to do is to continue, taking,nevertheless, the precaution of not driving too fast, so as not to maketoo much noise.And it is merely by this stillness into which we are now plunging, bythis solitude alone, that I am aware that we are right in the veryfront; for it is one of the strange characteristics of modern warfarethat the tragic zone bordering on the burrows of the barbarians, islike a desert. Not a soul is visible; everything here is hidden, buried,and--except on days when Death begins to roar with loud and terriblevoice--most frequently there is nothing to be heard.We go on and on in a scenery of dismal monotony, continually repeatingitself, all misty and unsubstantial in appearance as if made of muslin.Fifty yards behind us it is effaced and shut away; fifty yards ahead ofus it opens out, keeping its distance from us, but without varying itsaspect. The whitish plain with its frozen cart ruts remains ever thesame; it is blurred and does not reveal its distances; there is ever thesame dense atmosphere, resembling cold white cotton wool, which hastaken the place of air, and ever the two rows of trees powdered withrime, looking like big brooms which have been rolled in salt and thrustinto the ground by their handles. It is clear indeed that this region istoo often ravaged by lightning, or something equivalent. Oh, how manytrees there are shattered, twisted, with splintered branches hanging inshreds!We cross French trenches running to the right and left of the road,facing the unknown regions towards which we are hastening; they areready, several lines of them, to meet the improbable contingency of aretreat of our troops; but they are empty and are merely a continuationof the same desert. I call a halt from time to time to look around andlisten with ears pricked. There is no sound; everything is as still asif Nature herself had died of all this cold. The fog is growing thickerstill, and there are no field-glasses capable of penetrating it. At thevery most they might hear us arrive, the enemy, over there and beyond.According to my maps we have still another two miles at least before us.Onwards!But suddenly there appears to have been an evocation of ghosts; heads,rows of heads, wearing blue helmets, rise together from the ground,right and left, near and far. Upon my soul! they are our own soldiers tobe sure, and they content themselves with looking at us, scarcelyshowing themselves. But for these trenches, which we are passing sorapidly, to be so full of soldiers on the alert, we must be remarkablyclose to the Ogre's den. Nevertheless let us go a little farther, as thekindly mist stays with us like an accomplice.Five hundred yards farther on I remember the enemy's microphones, whichalone could betray us; and it so happens that the frozen earth and themist are two wonderful conductors of sound. Then it suddenly occurs tome that I have gone much too far, that I am surrounded by death, that itis only the fog which shelters us, and the thought that I am responsiblefor the lives of my soldiers makes me shudder. It is because I am not onduty; my expedition to-day is of my own choosing, and in theseconditions, if anything happened to one of them, I should suffer remorsefor the rest of my life. It is high time to leave the car here! Then Ishall continue my journey on foot towards the town of T----, to find outfrom our soldiers who are installed there in cellars of ruined houses,whereabouts the cemetery lies which I am seeking.But at this same moment a densely crowded cemetery is visible in a fieldto the left of the road; there are crosses, crosses of white wood,ranged close together in rows, as numerous as vines in the vineyards ofChampagne. It is a humble cemetery for soldiers, quite new, yet alreadyextensive, powdered with rime too, like the surrounding plains, andinfinitely desolate of aspect in that colourless countryside, which hasnot even a green blade of grass. Can this be the cemetery we areseeking?"Yes, certainly this is it," exclaims Osman, "this is it, for here is mypoor cousin's grave. Look, sir, the first, close to the ditch whichborders the cemetery. I read his name here."Indeed, I read it myself, "Pierre D----." The inscription is in verylarge letters, and the cross is facing in our direction more than theothers, as if it would call to us:"Halt! we are here. Do not run the risk of going any farther. Stop!"And we stop, listening attentively in the silence. There is no sound, nomovement anywhere, except the fall of a bead of frost, slipping off thegaunt trees by the wayside. We seem to be in absolute security. Let usthen calmly enter the field where this humble cross seems to havebeckoned to us.Osman had carefully prepared two little sealed bottles, containing thenames of our two dead friends, which he intended to bury at their feet,fearing lest shells should still be capable of destroying all the labelson the graves. It is true we have carelessly forgotten to bring a spadeto dig up the earth, but it cannot be helped, we shall do it as best wemay. The two chauffeurs accompany us, for knowing the reason for ourexpedition, they had, with kindly thoughtfulness, each brought a camerato take a photograph of the graves. Pierre D---- had been discovered atonce. There remained only my nephew to be found among these many frozengraves of youthful dead. In order to gain time--for the place is notvery reassuring, it must be confessed--let us divide the pious taskamong us, and each of us follow one of these rows, ranged with suchmilitary regularity.I do not think human imagination could ever conceive anything so dismalas this huge military cemetery in the midst of all this desolation, thissilence which one knows to be listening, hostile and treacherous, inthis horrible neighbourhood whose menace seems, as it were, to loom overus. Everything is white or whitish, beginning with the soil ofChampagne, which would always be pale even if it were not powdered withinnumerable little crystals of ice. There is no shrub, no greenery, noteven grass; nothing but the pale, cinder-grey earth in which oursoldiers have been buried. Here they lie, these two or three hundreds oflittle hillocks, so narrow that it seems that space is precious, eachone marked with its poor little white cross. Garlanded with frost, thearms of all these crosses seem fringed with sad, silent tears which havefrozen there, unable to fall, and the fog envelops the whole scene sojealously that the end of the cemetery cannot be clearly seen. The lastcrosses, hung with white drops, are lost in livid indefiniteness. Itseems as if this field alone were left in the world, with all its myriadpearls gleaming sadly, and naught else.I have bent down over a hundred graves at least and I find nothing butunknown names, often even that cruel phrase, "Not identified." I saythat I have bent down, because sometimes, instead of being painted inblack letters, the inscription was engraved on a little zincplate--nothing better was to be had--engraved hastily and difficult todecipher. At last I discover the poor boy whom I was seeking, "SergentGeorges de F." There he is, in 