 Why, only last winter, I was routedup after midnight, and brought off in the mud and peltingrain up one of the new streets on the hillside there,simply because a factory girl who was laced too tighthad fainted at a dance.  I slipped and fell into a puddlein the darkness, ruined a new overcoat, and got drenchedto the skin; and when I arrived the girl had recoveredand was dancing away again, thirteen to the dozen. It was then that I made the rule.  I hope, Mr. Ware,that Octavius is producing a pleasant impression upon youso far?""I scarcely know yet," answered Theron.  The genial talkof the priest, with its whimsical anecdote, had in truthpassed over his head.  His mind still had room for nothingbut that novel death-bed scene, with the winged captainof the angelic host, the Baptist, the glorified Fisherman. and the Preacher, all being summoned down in the pompof liturgical Latin to help MacEvoy to die.  "If you don'tmind my saying so," he added hesitatingly, "what I havejust seen in there DID make a very powerful impressionupon me.""It is a very ancient ceremony," said the priest;"probably Persian, like the baptismal form, although,for that matter, we can never dig deep enough for theroots of these things.  They all turn up Turanian if weprobe far enough.  Our ways separate here, I'm afraid. I am delighted to have made your acquaintance, Mr. Ware. Pray look in upon me, if you can as well as not.  We arenear neighbors, you know."Father Forbes had shaken hands, and moved off up anotherstreet some distance, before the voice of the girlrecalled Theron to himself."Of course you knew HIM by name," she was saying, "and heknew you by sight, and had talked of you; but MY poorinferior sex has to be introduced.  I am Celia Madden. My father has the wagon-shops, and I--I play the organ atthe church.""I--I am delighted to make your acquaintance," said Theron,conscious as he spoke that he had slavishly echoed theformula of the priest.  He could think of nothing betterto add than, "Unfortunately, we have no organ in our church."The girl laughed, as they resumed their walk down the street. "I'm afraid I couldn't undertake two," she said,and laughed again.  Then she spoke more seriously. "That ceremony must have interested you a good deal,never having seen it before.  I saw that it was all newto you, and so I made bold to take you under my wing,so to speak."You were very kind," said the young minister.  "It wasreally a great experience for me.  May--may I ask,is it a part of your functions, in the church, I mean,to attend these last rites?""Mercy, no!" replied the girl, spinning the parasol on hershoulder and smiling at the thought.  "No; it was onlybecause MacEvoy was one of our workmen, and really cameby his death through father sending him up to trim a tree. Ann MacEvoy will never forgive us that, the longest dayshe lives.  Did you notice her?  She wouldn't speak to me. After you came out, I tried to tell her that we wouldlook out for her and the children; but all she would sayto me was:  'An' fwat would a wheelwright, an' him thefather of a family, be doin' up a tree?'"They had come now upon the main street of the village,with its flagstone sidewalk overhung by a lofty canopy ofelm-boughs. Here, for the space of a block, was concentratedsuch fashionable elegance of mansions and ornamental lawnsas Octavius had to offer; and it was presented with theirregularity so characteristic of our restless civilization. Two or three of the houses survived untouched from theearlier days--prim, decorous structures, each with itsgabled centre and lower wings, each with its row of flutedcolumns supporting the classical roof of a piazza acrossits whole front, each vying with the others in the whitenessof those wooden walls enveloping its bright green blinds. One had to look over picket fences to see these houses,and in doing so caught the notion that they thus railedthemselves off in pride at being able to remember beforethe railroad came to the village, or the wagon-works were thought of.Before the neighboring properties the fences had beenswept away, so that one might stroll from the sidewalkstraight across the well-trimmed sward to any one of a dozenelaborately modern doorways.  Some of the residences,thus frankly proffering friendship to the passer-by,were of wood painted in drabs and dusky reds,with bulging windows which marked the native yearningfor the mediaeval, and shingles that strove to beaccounted tiles.  Others--a prouder, less pretentious sort--were of brick or stone, with terra-cotta mouldingsset into the walls, and with real slates coveringthe riot of turrets and peaks and dormer peepholes overhead.Celia Madden stopped in front of the largest and mostimportant-looking of these new edifices, and said,holding out her hand:  "Here I am, once more. Good-morning, Mr. Ware."Theron hoped that his manner did not betray the flashof surprise he felt in discovering that his newacquaintance lived in the biggest house in Octavius. He remembered now that some one had pointed it outas the abode of the owner of the wagon factories;but it had not occurred to him before to associate thisgirl with that village magnate.  It was stupid of him,of course, because she had herself mentioned her father. He looked at her again with an awkward smile,as he formally shook the gloved hand she gave him,and lifted his soft hat.  The strong noon sunlight,forcing its way down between the elms, and beating uponher parasol of lace-edged, creamy silk, made a haloabout her hair and face at once brilliant and tender. He had not seen before how beautiful she was.  She noddedin recognition of his salute, and moved up the lawn walk,spinning the sunshade on her shoulder.Though the parsonage was only three blocks away,the young minister had time to think about a good manythings before he reached home.First of all, he had to revise in part the arrangementof his notions about the Irish.  Save for an occasionalisolated and taciturn figure among the nomadic portionof the hired help in the farm country, Theron had scarcelyever spoken to a person of this curiously alien race before. He remembered now that there had been some dozen or moreIrish families in Tyre, quartered in the outskirts amongthe brickyards, but he had never come in contact with anyof them, or given to their existence even a passing thought. So far as personal acquaintance went, the Irish had beento him only a name.But what a sinister and repellent name!  His views onthis general subject were merely those common to hiscommunion and his environment.  He took it for granted,for example, that in the large cities most of the povertyand all the drunkenness, crime, and political corruptionwere due to the perverse qualities of this foreign people--qualities accentuated and emphasized in every evil directionby the baleful influence of a false and idolatrous religion. It is hardly too much to say that he had never encountereda dissenting opinion on this point.  His boyhood had beenspent in those bitter days when social, political, and bloodprejudices were fused at white heat in the publiccrucible together.  When he went to the Church Seminary,it was a matter of course that every member of the facultywas a Republican, and that every one of his classmateshad come from a Republican household.  When, later on,he entered the ministry, the rule was still incredulousof exceptions.  One might as well have looked in theNedahma Conference for a divergence of opinion on theTrinity as for a difference in political conviction. Indeed, even among the laity, Theron could not feel surethat he had ever known a Democrat; that is, at all closely. He understood very little about politics, it is true. If he had been driven into a corner, and forced to attemptan explanation of this tremendous partisan unity in which hehad a share, he would probably have first mentioned the War--the last shots of which were fired while he was stillin petticoats.  Certainly his second reason, however,would have been that the Irish were on the other side.He had never before had occasion to formulate, even in hisown thoughts, this tacit race and religious aversion in whichhe had been bred.  It rose now suddenly in front of him,as he sauntered from patch to patch of sunlight underthe elms, like some huge, shadowy, and symbolic monument. He looked at it with wondering curiosity, as at somethinghe had heard of all his life, but never seen before--an abhorrent spectacle, truly!  The foundations uponwhich its dark bulk reared itself were ignorance, squalor,brutality and vice.  Pigs wallowed in the mire before its base,and burrowing into this base were a myriad of narrow doors,each bearing the hateful sign of a saloon, and givingforth from its recesses of night the sounds of screamsand curses.  Above were sculptured rows of lowering,ape-like faces from Nast's and Keppler's cartoons,and out of these sprang into the vague upper gloom--on theone side, lamp-posts from which negroes hung by the neck,and on the other gibbets for dynamiters and Molly Maguires,and between the two glowed a spectral picture of someblack-robed tonsured men, with leering satanic masks,making a bonfire of the Bible in the public schools.Theron stared this phantasm hard in the face, and recognizedit for a very tolerable embodiment of what he had heretoforesupposed he thought about the Irish.  For an instant,the sight of it made him shiver, as if the sunny Mayhad of a sudden lapsed back into bleak December. Then he smiled, and the bad vision went off into space. He saw instead Father Forbes, in the white and purple vestments,standing by poor MacEvoy's bedside, with his pale,chiselled, luminous, uplifted face, and he heard onlythe proud, confident clanging of the girl's recital,--BEATUM MICHAELEM ARCHANGELUM, BEATUM JOANNEM BAPTISTAM,PETRUM ET PAULUM--EM!--AM!--UM!--like strokes on a greatresonant alarm-bell, attuned for the hearing of heaven. He caught himself on the very verge of feeling that heavenmust have heard.Then he smiled again, and laid the matter aside, with aparting admission that it had been undoubtedly picturesqueand impressive, and that it had been a valuable experienceto him to see it.  At least the Irish, with all their faults,must have a poetic strain, or they would not have clungso tenaciously to those curious and ancient forms. He recalled having heard somewhere, or read, it might be,that they were a people much given to songs and music. And the young lady, that very handsome and friendlyMiss Madden, had told him that she was a musician! He had a new pleasure in turning this over in his mind. Of all the closed doors which his choice of a career hadleft along his pathway, no other had for him such a magicalfascination as that on which was graven the lute of Orpheus. He knew not even the alphabet of music, and his conceptionsof its possibilities ran but little beyond the bestof the hymn-singing he had heard at Conferences, yet nonethe less the longing for it raised on occasion such mutinyin his soul that more than once he had specifically prayedagainst it as a temptation.Dangerous though some of its tendencies might be, there wasno gainsaying the fact that a love for music was in the mainan uplifting influence--an attribute of cultivation. The world was the sweeter and more gentle for it.  And thisbrought him to musing upon the odd chance that the two peopleof Octavius who had given him the first notion of polishand intellectual culture in the town should be Irish. The Romish priest must have been vastly surprised athis intrusion, yet had been at the greatest pains to actas if it were quite the usual thing to have Methodistministers assist at Extreme Unction.  And the young woman--how gracefully, with what delicacy, had she comprehended hisposition and robbed it of all its possible embarrassments! It occurred to him that they must have passed, there infront of her home, the very tree from which the lucklesswheelwright had fallen some hours before; and the factthat she had forborne to point it out to him took formin his mind as an added proof of her refinement of nature.The midday dinner was a little more than ready when Theronreached home, and let himself in by the front door. On Mondays, owing to the moisture and "clutter" of theweekly washing in the kitchen, the table was laid in thesitting-room, and as he entered from the hall the partnerof his joys bustled in by the other door, bearing the steamingplatter of corned beef, dumplings, cabbages, and carrots,with arms bared to the elbows, and a red face.  It gavehim great comfort, however, to note that there were nosigns of the morning's displeasure remaining on this face;and he immediately remembered again those interruptedprojects of his about the piano and the hired girl."Well!  I'd just about begun to reckon that I wasa widow," said Alice, putting down her fragrant burden. There was such an obvious suggestion of propitiationin her tone that Theron went around and kissed her. He thought of saying something about keeping out of the waybecause it was "Blue Monday," but held it back lest itshould sound like a reproach."Well, what kind of a washerwoman does THIS one turnout to be?" he asked, after they were seated, and he hadinvoked a blessing and was cutting vigorously into the meat."Oh, so-so," replied Alice; "she seems to be particular,but she's mortal slow.  If I hadn't stood right over her,we shouldn't have had the clothes out till goodness knows when. And of course she's Irish!""Well, what of THAT?" asked the minister, with a fine unconcern.Alice looked up from her plate, with knife and forksuspended in air.  "Why, you know we were talkingonly the other day of what a pity it was that noneof our own people went out washing," she said. "That Welsh woman we heard of couldn't come, after all;and they say, too, that she presumes dreadfully uponthe acquaintance, being a church member, you know.  So wesimply had to fall back on the Irish.  And even if they dogo and tell their priest everything they see and hear, why,there's one comfort, they can tell about US and welcome. Of course I see to it she doesn't snoop around in here."Theron smiled.  "That's all nonsense about their tellingsuch things to their priests," he said with easy confidence."Why, you told me so yourself," replied Alice, briskly. "And I've always understood so, too; they're bound to tellEVERYTHING in confession.  That's what gives the CatholicChurch such a tremendous hold.  You've spoken of it often.""It must have been by way of a figure of speech,"remarked Theron, not with entire directness.  "Women are greathands to separate one's observations from their context,and so give them meanings quite unintended.  They are alsogreat hands," he added genially, "or at least one of them is,at making the most delicious dumplings in the world. I believe these are the best even you ever made."Alice was not unmindful of the compliment, but her thoughtswere on other things.  "I shouldn't like that woman's priest,for example," she said, "to know that we had no piano.""But if he comes and stands outside our house everynight and listens--as of course he will," said Theron,with mock gravity, "it is only a question of time when hemust reach that conclusion for himself.  Our only chance,however, is that there are some sixteen hundred otherhouses for him to watch, so that he may not get aroundto us for quite a spell.  Why, seriously, Alice, what onearth do you suppose Father Forbes knows or cares aboutour poor little affairs, or those of any other Protestanthousehold in this whole village?  He has his work to do,just as I have mine--only his is ten times as exactingin everything except sermons--and you may be sure he isonly too glad when it is over each day, without botheringabout things that are none of his business.""All the same I'm afraid of them," said Alice,as if argument were exhausted.CHAPTER VIOn the following morning young Mr. Ware anticipated eventsby inscribing in his diary for the day, immediatelyafter breakfast, these remarks:  "Arranged about piano. Began work upon book."The date indeed deserved to be distinguished fromits fellows.  Theron was so conscious of its importancethat he not only prophesied in the little morocco-bounddiary which Alice had given him for Christmas,but returned after he had got out upon the frontsteps of the parsonage to have his hat brushed afresh by her."Wonders will never cease," she said jocosely.  "With yougetting particular about your clothes, there isn'tanything in this wide world that can't happen now!""One doesn't go out to bring home a piano every day,"he made answer.  "Besides, I want to make such an impressionupon the man that he will deal gently with that first cashpayment down.  Do you know," he added, watching her turnthe felt brim under the wisp-broom's strokes, "I'm thinkingsome of getting me a regular silk stove-pipe hat.""Why don't you, then?" she rejoined, but without any ringof glad acquiescence in her tone.  He fancied that herface lengthened a little, and he instantly ascribed itto recollections of the way in which the roses had beenbullied out of her own headgear."You are quite sure, now, pet," he made haste to changethe subject, "that the hired girl can wait just as wellas not until fall?""Oh, MY, yes!"  Alice replied, putting the hat on his head,and smoothing back his hair behind his ears.  "She'd onlybe in the way now.  You see, with hot weather coming on,there won't be much cooking.  We'll take all our mealsout here, and that saves so much work that really whatremains is hardly more than taking care of a bird-cage. And,besides, not having her will almost half pay for the piano.""But when cold weather comes, you're sure you'll consent?"he urged."Like a shot!" she assured him, and, after a happylittle caress, he started out again on his momentous mission."Thurston's" was a place concerning which opinions differedin Octavius.  That it typified progress, and helped morethan any other feature of the village to bring it upto date, no one indeed disputed.  One might move abouta great deal, in truth, and hear no other view expressed. But then again one might stumble into conversation withone small storekeeper after another, and learn that theyunited in resenting the existence of "Thurston's," asrival farmers might join to curse a protracted drought. Each had his special flaming grievance.  The littledry-goods dealers asked mournfully how they could beexpected to compete with an establishment which could buybankrupt stocks at a hundred different points, and makea profit if only one-third of the articles were soldfor more than they would cost from the jobber?  The littleboot and shoe dealers, clothiers, hatters, and furriers,the small merchants in carpets, crockery, and furniture,the venders of hardware and household utensils, of leatherngoods and picture-frames, of wall-paper, musical instruments,and even toys--all had the same pathetically unanswerablequestion to propound.  But mostly they put it to themselves,because the others were at "Thurston's."The Rev. Theron Ware had entertained rather strong viewson this subject, and that only a week or two ago. One of his first acquaintances in Octavius had beenthe owner of the principal book-store in the place--a gentle and bald old man who produced the completeimpression of a bibliophile upon what the slightestinvestigation showed to be only a meagre acquaintancewith publishers' circulars.  But at least he had the airof loving his business, and the young minister had enjoyeda long talk with, or rather, at him.  Out of this talkhad come the information that the store was losing money. Not even the stationery department now showed a profitworth mentioning.  When Octavius had contained only fivethousand inhabitants, it boasted four book-stores, two ofthem good ones.  Now, with a population more than doubled,only these latter two survived, and they must soon goto the wall.  The reason?  It was in a nutshell.  A bookwhich sold at retail for one dollar and a half cost thebookseller ninety cents.  If it was at all a popular book,"Thurston's" advertised it at eighty-nine cents--and in any case at a profit of only two or three cents. Of course it was done to widen the establishment's patronage--to bring people into the store.  Equally of course,it was destroying the book business and debauching thereading tastes of the community.  Without the profits fromthe light and ephemeral popular literature of the season,the book-store proper could not keep up its stock of moresolid works, and indeed could not long keep open at all. On the other hand, "Thurston's" dealt with nothing savethe demand of the moment, and offered only the bookswhich were the talk of the week.  Thus, in plain words,the book trade was going to the dogs, and it was the samewith pretty nearly every other trade.Theron was indignant at this, and on his return hometold Alice that he desired her to make no purchaseswhatever at "Thurston's." He even resolved to preacha sermon on the subject of the modern idea of admiringthe great for crushing the small, and sketched out somenotes for it which he thought solved the problem offlaying the local abuse without mentioning it by name. They had lain on his desk now for ten days or more,and on only the previous Friday he had speculated uponusing them that coming Sunday.On this bright and cheerful Tuesday morning he walkedwith a blithe step unhesitatingly down the main streetto "Thurston's," and entered without any show of repugnancethe door next to the window wherein, flanked by danglingbanjos and key-bugles built in pyramids, was displayedthe sign, "Pianos on the Instalment Plan."He was recognized by some responsible persons, and treatedwith distinguished deference.  They were charmed withthe intelligence that he desired a piano, and fascinatedby his wish to pay for it only a little at a time. They had special terms for clergymen, and made him feelas if these were being extended to him on a silver chargerby kneeling admirers.It was so easy to buy things here that he was a trifledisturbed to find his flowing course interrupted by hisown entire ignorance as to what kind of piano he wanted. He looked at all they had in stock, and heard them played upon. They differed greatly in price, and, so he fancied,almost as much in tone.  It discouraged him to note,however, that several of those he thought the finestin tone were among the very cheapest in the lot. Pondering this, and staring in hopeless puzzlementfrom one to another of the big black shiny monsters,he suddenly thought of something."I would rather not decide for myself," he said, "I knowso little about it.  If you don't mind, I will have a friendof mine, a skilled musician, step in and make a selection. I have so much confidence in--in her judgment." He added hurriedly, "It will involve only a day or two's delay."The next moment he was sorry he had spoken.  What would theythink when they saw the organist of the Catholic churchcome to pick out a piano for the Methodist parsonage? And how could he decorously prefer the request to her toundertake this task?  He might not meet her again for ages,and to his provincial notions writing would have seemedout of the question.  And would it not be disagreeable tohave her know that he was buying a piano by part payments? Poor Alice's dread of the washerwoman's gossip occurredto him, at this, and he smiled in spite of himself. Then all at once the difficulty vanished.  Of course itwould come all right somehow.  Everything did.He was on firmer ground, buying the materials for the new book,over on the stationery side.  His original intention hadbeen to bestow this patronage upon the old bookseller,but these suavely smart people in "Thurston's" had hadthe effect of putting him on his honor when they asked,"Would there be anything else?" and he had followedthem unresistingly.He indulged to the full his whim that everything entering intothe construction of "Abraham" should be spick-and-span. Hewatched with his own eyes a whole ream of broad glazed whitepaper being sliced down by the cutter into single sheets,and thrilled with a novel ecstasy as he laid his handupon the spotless bulk, so wooingly did it invite himto begin.  He tried a score of pens before the right onecame to hand.  When a box of these had been laid aside,with ink and pen-holders and a little bronze inkstand,he made a sign that the outfit was complete.  Or no--there must be some blotting-paper. He had always usedthose blotting-pads given away by insurance companies--his congregations never failed to contain one or more agents,who had these to bestow by the armful--but the bookdeserved a virgin blotter.Theron stood by while all these things were being tied uptogether in a parcel.  The suggestion that they shouldbe sent almost hurt him.  Oh, no, he would carry themhome himself.  So strongly did they appeal to his sanguineimagination that he could not forbear hinting to the manwho had shown him the pianos and was now accompanying himto the door that this package under his arm representedpotentially the price of the piano he was going to have. He did it in a roundabout way, with one of his droll,hesitating smiles.  The man did not understand at all,and Theron had not the temerity to repeat the remark. He strode home with the precious bundle as fast ashe could."I thought it best, after all, not to commit myself toa selection," he explained about the piano at dinner-time. "Insuch a matter as this, the opinion of an expert is everything. I am going to have one of the principal musiciansof the town go and try them all, and tell me which we ought to have.""And while he's about it," said Alice, "you might askhim to make a little list of some of the new music. I've got way behind the times, being without a pianoso long.  Tell him not any VERY difficult pieces,you know.""Yes, I know," put in Theron, almost hastily,and began talking of other things.  His conversationwas of the most rambling and desultory sort, because allthe while the two lobes of his brain, as it were,kept up a dispute as to whether Alice ought to have beentold that this "principal musician" was of her own sex. It would certainly have been better, at the outset,he decided; but to mention it now would be to invest thefact with undue importance.  Yes, that was quite clear;only the clearer it became, from one point of view,the shadier it waxed from the other.  The problem reallydisturbed the young minister's mind throughout the meal,and his abstraction became so marked at last that his wifecommented upon it."A penny for your thoughts!" she said, with cheerful briskness. This ancient formula of the farm-land had always ratherjarred on Theron.  It presented itself now to his mindas a peculiarly aggravating banality."I am going to begin my book this afternoon,"he remarked impressively.  "There is a great deal to think about."It turned out that there was even more to think about than hehad imagined.  After hours of solitary musing at his desk,or of pacing up and down before his open book-shelves,Theron found the first shadows of a May-day twilightbeginning to fall upon that beautiful pile of white paper,still unstained by ink.  He saw the book he wanted to writebefore him, in his mental vision, much more distinctlythan ever, but the idea of beginning it impetuously,and hurling it off hot and glowing week by week, had fadedaway like a dream.This long afternoon, spent face to face with a projectborn of his own brain but yesterday, yet already somuch bigger than himself, was really a most fruitfultime for the young clergyman.  The lessons which cutmost deeply into our consciousness are those we learnfrom our children.  Theron, in this first day's contactwith the offspring of his fancy, found revealed to himan unsuspected and staggering truth.  It was that hewas an extremely ignorant and rudely untrained young man,whose pretensions to intellectual authority among anyeducated people would be laughed at with deserved contempt.Strangely enough, after he had weathered the first shock,this discovery did not dismay Theron Ware.  The very completenessof the conviction it carried with it, saturated his mindwith a feeling as if the fact had really been known to himall along.  And there came, too, after a little, an almostpleasurable sense of the importance of the revelation. He had been merely drifting in fatuous and conceited blindness. Now all at once his eyes were open; he knew what hehad to do.  Ignorance was a thing to be remedied, and hewould forthwith bend all his energies to cultivatinghis mind till it should blossom like a garden. In this mood, Theron mentally measured himself againstthe more conspicuous of his colleagues in the Conference. They also were ignorant, clownishly ignorant:  the differencewas that they were doomed by native incapacity to goon all their lives without ever finding it out.  It wasobvious to him that his case was better.  There was brightpromise in the very fact that he had discovered his shortcomings.He had begun the afternoon by taking down from theirplaces the various works in his meagre library whichbore more or less relation to the task in hand. The threescore books which constituted his printedpossessions were almost wholly from the press of theBook Concern; the few exceptions were volumes which,though published elsewhere, had come to him throughthat giant circulating agency of the General Conference,and wore the stamp of its approval.  Perhaps it was thesight of these half-filled shelves which started thisday's great revolution in Theron's opinions of himself. He had never thought much before about owning books. He had been too poor to buy many, and the conditions ofcanvassing about among one's parishioners which the thriftyBook Concern imposes upon those who would have without buying,had always repelled him.  Now, suddenly, as he moved alongthe two shelves, he felt ashamed at their beggarly showing."The Land and the Book," in three portly volumes,was the most pretentious of the aids which he finallyculled from his collection.  Beside it he laidout "Bible Lands," "Rivers and Lakes of Scripture,""Bible Manners and Customs," the "Genesis and Exodus"volume of Whedon's Commentary, some old numbers of the"Methodist Quarterly Review," and a copy of "Josephus"which had belonged to his grandmother, and had seenhim through many a weary Sunday afternoon in boyhood. He glanced casually through these, one by one, as he tookthem down, and began to fear that they were not going to beof so much use as he had thought.  Then, seating himself,he read carefully through the thirteen chapters of Genesiswhich chronicle the story of the founder of Israel.Of course he had known this story from his earliest years. In almost every chapter he came now upon a phrase or anincident which had served him as the basis for a sermon. He had preached about Hagar in the wilderness,about Lot's wife, about the visit of the angels,about the intended sacrifice of Isaac, about a dozen otherthings suggested by the ancient narrative.  Somehow thistime it all seemed different to him.  The people he readabout were altered to his vision.  Heretofore a poeticlight had shone about them, where indeed they had notglowed in a halo of sanctification.  Now, by some chance,this light was gone, and he saw them instead as untutored andunwashed barbarians, filled with animal lusts and ferocities,struggling by violence and foul chicanery to securea foothold in a country which did not belong to them--all rude tramps and robbers of the uncivilized plain.The apparent fact that Abram was a Chaldean struck himwith peculiar force.  How was it, he wondered, that thishad never occurred to him before?  Examining himself,he found that he had supposed vaguely that there had beenJews from the beginning, or at least, say, from the flood. But, no, Abram was introduced simply as a citizenof the Chaldean town of Ur, and there was no hint ofany difference in race between him and his neighbors. It was specially mentioned that his brother, Lot's father,died in Ur, the city of his nativity.  Evidently the familybelonged there, and were Chaldeans like the rest.I do not cite this as at all a striking discovery, but itdid have a curious effect upon Theron Ware.  Up to thatvery afternoon, his notion of the kind of book he wantedto write had been founded upon a popular book called "Ruththe Moabitess," written by a clergyman he knew very well,the Rev. E. Ray Mifflin.  This model performance troubleditself not at all with difficult points, but went swimminglyalong through scented summer seas of pretty rhetoric,teaching nothing, it is true, but pleasing a good dealand selling like hot cakes.  Now, all at once Theronfelt that he hated that sort of book.  HIS work shouldbe of a vastly different order.  He might fairly assume,he thought, that if the fact that Abram was a Chaldeanwas new to him, it would fall upon the world in generalas a novelty.  Very well, then, there was his chance. He would write a learned book, showing who the Chaldeanswere, and how their manners and beliefs differed from,and influenced--It was at this psychological instant that the wave ofself-condemnation suddenly burst upon and submerged theyoung clergyman.  It passed again, leaving him staring fixedlyat the pile of books he had taken down from the shelves,and gasping a little, as if for breath.  Then the humorousside of the thing, perversely enough, appealed to him,and he grinned feebly to himself at the joke of his havingimagined that he could write learnedly about the Chaldeans,or anything else.  But, no, it shouldn't remain a joke! His long mobile face grew serious under the new resolve. He would learn what there was to be learned about the Chaldeans. He rose and walked up and down the room, gathering freshstrength of purpose as this inviting field of researchspread out its vistas before him.  Perhaps--yes, he wouldincidentally explore the mysteries of the Moabitic pastas well, and thus put the Rev. E. Ray Mifflin to confusionon his own subject.  That would in itself be a useful thing,because Mifflin wore kid gloves at the Conference,and affected an intolerable superiority of dress and demeanor,and there would be general satisfaction among the plainerand worthier brethren at seeing him taken down a peg.Now for the first time there rose distinctly in Theron'smind that casual allusion which Father Forbes had madeto the Turanians.  He recalled, too, his momentary feelingof mortification at not knowing who the Turanians were,at the time.  Possibly, if he had probed this matter more deeply,now as he walked and pondered in the little living-room,he might have traced the whole of the afternoon's mentalexperiences to that chance remark of the Romish priest. But this speculation did not detain him.  He mused insteadupon the splendid library Father Forbes must have."Well, how does the book come on?  Have you got to 'myLady Keturah' yet?'"It was Alice who spoke, opening the door from the kitchen,and putting in her head with a pretence of great andsolemn caution, but with a correcting twinkle in her eyes."I haven't got to anybody yet," answered Theron, absently. "These big things must be approached slowly."Come out to supper, then, while the beans are hot,"said Alice.The young minister sat through this other meal, again indeep abstraction.  His wife pursued her little pleasantryabout Keturah, the second wife, urging him with mock gravityto scold her roundly for daring to usurp Sarah's place,but Theron scarcely heard her, and said next to nothing. He ate sparingly, and fidgeted in his seat, waiting withobvious impatience for the finish of the meal. At last he rose abruptly."I've got a call to make--something with referenceto the book," he said.  "I'll run out now, I think,before it gets dark."He put on his hat, and strode out of the house as if hiserrand was of the utmost urgency.  Once upon the street,however, his pace slackened.  There was still a good dealof daylight outside, and he loitered aimlessly about,walking with bowed head and hands clasped behind him,until dusk fell.  Then he squared his shoulders,and started straight as the crow flies toward the residenceof Father Forbes.CHAPTER VIIThe new Catholic church was the largest and most imposingpublic building in Octavius.  Even in its unfinished condition,with a bald roofing of weather-beaten boards marking onthe stunted tower the place where a spire was to beginlater on, it dwarfed every other edifice of the sort inthe town, just as it put them all to shame in the matterof the throngs it drew, rain or shine, to its services.These facts had not heretofore been a source of satisfactionto the Rev. Theron Ware.  He had even alluded to the subjectin terms which gave his wife the impression that heactively deplored the strength and size of the Catholicdenomination in this new home of theirs, and was troubledin his mind about Rome generally.  But this evening hewalked along the extended side of the big structure,which occupied nearly half the block, and then,turning the corner, passed in review its wide-doored,looming front, without any hostile emotions whatever. In the gathering dusk it seemed more massive than ever before,but he found himself only passively considering the oddstatement he had heard that all Catholic Church propertywas deeded absolutely in the name of the Bishop of the diocese.Only a narrow passage-way separated the church fromthe pastorate--a fine new brick residence standingflush upon the street.  Theron mounted the steps,and looked about for a bell-pull. Search revealed insteada little ivory button set in a ring of metal work. He picked at this for a time with his finger-nail, beforehe made out the injunction, printed across it, to push. Of course! how stupid of him!  This was one of thoseelectric bells he had heard so much of, but which had notas yet made their way to the class of homes he knew. For custodians of a mediaeval superstition and fanaticism,the Catholic clergy seemed very much up to date.  This bellmade him feel rather more a countryman than ever.The door was opened by a tall gaunt woman, who stoodin black relief against the radiance of the hall-waywhile Theron, choosing his words with some diffidence,asked if the Rev. Mr. Forbes was in."He is" came the hush-voiced answer.  "He's at dinner, though."It took the young minister a second or two to bringinto association in his mind this evening hour and thismidday meal.  Then he began to say that he would call again--it was nothing special--but the woman suddenly cut himshort by throwing the door wide open."It's Mr. Ware, is it not?" she asked, in a greatlyaltered tone.  "Sure, he'd not have you go away. Come inside--do, sir!--I'll tell him."Theron, with a dumb show of reluctance, crossed the threshold. He noted now that the woman, who had bustled down the hallon her errand, was gray-haired and incredibly ugly, with adark sour face, glowering black eyes, and a twisted mouth. Then he saw that he was not alone in the hall-way.Three men and two women, all poorly clad and obviouslyworking people, were seated in meek silence on a benchbeyond the hat-rack. They glanced up at him for an instant,then resumed their patient study of the linoleum patternon the floor at their feet."And will you kindly step in, sir?" the elderly Gorgonhad returned to ask.  She led Mr. Ware along the hall-wayto a door near the end, and opened it for him to passbefore her.He entered a room in which for the moment he could seenothing but a central glare of dazzling light beatingdown from a great shaded lamp upon a circular patchof white table linen.  Inside this ring of illuminationpoints of fire sparkled from silver and porcelain,and two bars of burning crimson tracked across the clothin reflection from tall glasses filled with wine. The rest of the room was vague darkness; but the gloomseemed saturated with novel aromatic odors, the appetizingscent of which bore clear relation to what Theron'sblinking eyes rested upon.He was able now to discern two figures at the table,outside the glowing circle of the lamp.  They hadboth risen, and one came toward him with cordial celerity,holding out a white plump hand in greeting.  He tookthis proffered hand rather limply, not wholly surein the half-light that this really was Father Forbes,and began once more that everlasting apology to which heseemed doomed in the presence of the priest.  It wasbroken abruptly off by the other's protesting laughter."My dear Mr. Ware, I beg of you," the priest urged,chuckling with hospitable mirth, "don't, don't apologize! I give you my word, nothing in the world could havepleased us better than your joining us here tonight. It was quite dramatic, your coming in as you did. We were speaking of you at that very moment.  Oh, I forgot--let me make you acquainted with my friend--my veryparticular friend, Dr. Ledsmar.  Let me take your hat;pray draw up a chair.  Maggie will have a place laid for youin a minute.""Oh, I assure you--I couldn't think of it--I've justeaten my--my--dinner," expostulated Theron.  He murmuredmore inarticulate remonstrances a moment later, when thegrim old domestic appeared with plates, serviette,and tableware for his use, but she went on spreadingthem before him as if she heard nothing.  Thus committedagainst a decent show of resistance, the young minister dideat a little here and there of what was set before him,and was human enough to regret frankly that he couldnot eat more.  It seemed to him very remarkable cookery,transfiguring so simple a thing as a steak, for example,quite out of recognition, and investing the humblepotato with a charm he had never dreamed of. He wondered from time to time if it would be politeto ask how the potatoes were cooked, so that he might tell Alice.The conversation at the table was not continuous,or even enlivened.  After the lapses into silence became marked,Theron began to suspect that his refusal to drink wine hadannoyed them--the more so as he had drenched a large sectionof table-cloth in his efforts to manipulate a siphon instead. He was greatly relieved, therefore, when Father Forbesexplained in an incidental way that Dr. Ledsmarand he customarily ate their meals almost without a word."It's a philosophic fad of his," the priest went on smilingly,"and I have fallen in with it for the sake of a quiet life;so that when we do have company--that is to say,once in a blue moon--we display no manners to speak of""I had always supposed--that is, I've always heard--that it was more healthful to talk at meals," said Theron. "Of course--what I mean--I took it for granted all physiciansthought so."Dr. Ledsmar laughed.  "That depends so much upon thequality of the meals!" he remarked, holding his glassup to the light.He seemed a man of middle age and an equable disposition. Theron, stealing stray glances at him around the lampshade,saw most distinctly of all a broad, impressive domeof skull, which, though obviously the result of baldness,gave the effect of quite belonging to the face. There were gold-rimmed spectacles, through which shonenow and again the vivid sparkle of sharp, alert eyes,and there was a nose of some sort not easy to classify,at once long and thick.  The rest was thin hair and shortround beard, mouse-colored where the light caught them,but losing their outlines in the shadows of the background. Theron had not heard of him among the physicians of Octavius. He wondered if he might not be a doctor of something elsethan medicine, and decided upon venturing the question."Oh, yes, it is medicine," replied Ledsmar.  "I am a doctorthree or four times over, so far as parchments can make one. In some other respects, though, I should think I amprobably less of a doctor than anybody else now living. I haven't practised--that is, regularly--for many years,and I take no interest whatever in keeping abreastof what the profession regards as its progress.  I knownothing beyond what was being taught in the sixties,and that I am glad to say I have mostly forgotten.""Dear me!" said Theron.  "I had always supposed thatScience was the most engrossing of pursuits--that oncea man took it up he never left it.""But that would imply a connection between Scienceand Medicine!" commented the doctor.  "My dear sir,they are not even on speaking terms.""Shall we go upstairs?" put in the priest, rising from his chair. "It will be more comfortable to have our coffee there--unless indeed, Mr. Ware, tobacco is unpleasant to you?""Oh, my, no!" the young minister exclaimed, eager tofree himself from the suggestion of being a kill-joy."I don't smoke myself; but I am very fond of the odor,I assure you."Father Forbes led the way out.  It could be seen now that hewore a long house-gown of black silk, skilfully mouldedto his erect, shapely, and rounded form.  Though he carriedthis with the natural grace of a proud and beautiful belle,there was no hint of the feminine in his bearing,or in the contour of his pale, firm-set, handsome face. As he moved through the hall-way, the five peoplewhom Theron had seen waiting rose from their bench,and two of the women began in humble murmurs, "If youplease, Father," and "Good-evening to your Riverence;"but the priest merely nodded and passed on up the staircase,followed by his guests.  The people sat down on their bench again.A few minutes later, reclining at his ease in a huge low chair,and feeling himself unaccountably at home in the mostluxuriously appointed and delightful little room he hadever seen, the Rev. Theron Ware sipped his unaccustomedcoffee and embarked upon an explanation of his errand. Somehow the very profusion of scholarly symbols about him--the great dark rows of encased and crowded book-shelvesrising to the ceiling, the classical engravings uponthe wall, the revolving book-case, the reading-stand,the mass of littered magazines, reviews, and papersat either end of the costly and elaborate writing-desk--seemed to make it the easier for him to explain withoutreproach that he needed information about Abram.  He toldthem quite in detail the story of his book.The two others sat watching him through a faint haze ofscented smoke, with polite encouragement on their faces. Father Forbes took the added trouble to nod understandinglyat the various points of the narrative, and when it wasfinished gave one of his little approving chuckles."This skirts very closely upon sorcery," he said smilingly. "Do you know, there is perhaps not another man in the countrywho knows Assyriology so thoroughly as our friend here,Dr. Ledsmar.""That's putting it too strong," remarked the Doctor. "I only follow at a distance--a year or two behind. But I daresay I can help you.  You are quite welcometo anything I have:  my books cover the ground prettywell up to last year.  Delitzsch is very interesting;but Baudissin's 'Studien zur Semitischen Religionsgeschichte'would come closer to what you need.  There are severalother important Germans--Schrader, Bunsen, Duncker, Hommel,and so on.""Unluckily I--I don't read German readily," Theron explainedwith diffidence."That's a pity," said the doctor, "because they do thebest work--not only in this field, but in most others. And they do so much that the mass defies translation. Well, the best thing outside of German of course is Sayce. I daresay you know him, though."The Rev. Mr. Ware shook his head mournfully.  I don'tseem to know any one," he murmured.The others exchanged glances."But if I may ask, Mr. Ware," pursued the doctor,regarding their guest with interest through his spectacles,"why do you specially hit upon Abraham?  He is fullof difficulties--enough, just now, at any rate, to warnoff the bravest scholar.  Why not take something easier?"Theron had recovered something of his confidence.  "Oh, no,"he said, "that is just what attracts me to Abraham. I like the complexities and contradictions in his character. Take for instance all that strange and picturesque episodeof Hagar:  see the splendid contrast between the craft andcommercial guile of his dealings in Egypt and with Abimelech,and the simple, straightforward godliness of hislater years.  No, all those difficulties only attract me. Do you happen to know--of course you would know--do thoseGerman books, or the others, give anywhere any additionaldetails of the man himself and his sayings and doings--little things which help, you know, to round out one'sconception of the individual?"Again the priest and the doctor stole a furtive glanceacross the young minister's head.  It was Father Forbeswho replied."I fear that you are taking our friend Abraham too literally,Mr. Ware," he said, in that gentle semblance of paternaltones which seemed to go so well with his gown. "Modern research, you know, quite wipes him out of existenceas an individual.  The word 'Abram' is merely an eponym--it means 'exalted father.'  Practically all the namesin the Genesis chronologies are what we call eponymous. Abram is not a person at all:  he is a tribe, a sept,a clan.  In the same way, Shem is not intended for a man;it is the name of a great division of the human race. Heber is simply the throwing back into allegorical substance,so to speak, of the Hebrews; Heth of the Hittites;Asshur of Assyria.""But this is something very new, this theory, isn't it?"queried Theron.The priest smiled and shook his head.  "Bless you, no! My dear sir, there is nothing new.  Epicurus and Lucretiusoutlined the whole Darwinian theory more than two thousandyears ago.  As for this eponym thing, why Saint Augustinecalled attention to it fifteen hundred years ago.  In his 'DeCivitate Dei,' he expressly says of these genealogical names,'GENTES NON HOMINES;' that is, 'peoples, not persons.' It was as obvious to him--as much a commonplace of knowledge--as it was to Ezekiel eight hundred years before him.""It seems passing strange that we should not knowit now, then," commented Theron; "I mean, that everybodyshouldn't know it."Father Forbes gave a little purring chuckle. "Ah, there we get upon contentious ground," he remarked. "Why should 'everybody' be supposed to know anything at all? What business is it of 'everybody's' to know things? The earth was just as round in the days when peoplesupposed it to be flat, as it is now.  So the truthremains always the truth, even though you give a charterto ten hundred thousand separate numskulls to examineit by the light of their private judgment, and reportthat it is as many different varieties of something else. But of course that whole question of private judgmentversus authority is No-Man's-Land for us.  We were speakingof eponyms.""Yes," said Theron; "it is very interesting.""There is a curious phase of the subject which hasn't beenworked out much," continued the priest.  "Probably the Germanswill get at that too, sometime.  They are doing the best Irishwork in other fields, as it is.  I spoke of Heber and Heth,in Genesis, as meaning the Hebrews and the Hittites. Now my own people, the Irish, have far more ancient legendsand traditions than any other nation west of Athens;and you find in their myth of the Milesian invasionand conquest two principal leaders called Heber and Ith,or Heth.  That is supposed to be comparatively modern--about the time of Solomon's Temple.  But these independentIrish myths go back to the fall of the Tower of Babel,and they have there an ancestor, grandson of Japhet,named Fenius Farsa, and they ascribe to him the inventionof the alphabet.  They took their ancient name of Feine,the modern Fenian, from him.  Oddly enough, that isthe name which the Romans knew the Phoenicians by,and to them also is ascribed the invention of the alphabet. The Irish have a holy salmon of knowledge, just like theChaldean man-fish. The Druids' tree-worship is identicalwith that of the Chaldeans--those pagan groves, you know,which the Jews were always being punished for building. You see, there is nothing new.  Everything is built onthe ruins of something else.  Just as the material earthis made up of countless billions of dead men's bones,so the mental world is all alive with the ghosts of deadmen's thoughts and beliefs, the wraiths of dead races'faiths and imaginings."Father Forbes paused, then added with a twinkle in his eye: "That peroration is from an old sermon of mine, in the dayswhen I used to preach.  I remember rather liking it,at the time.""But you still preach?" asked the Rev. Mr. Ware,with lifted brows."No! no more!  I only talk now and again," answered the priest,with what seemed a suggestion of curtness.  He made hasteto take the conversation back again.  "The names of thesedead-and-gone things are singularly pertinacious, though. They survive indefinitely.  Take the modern name Marmaduke,for example.  It strikes one as peculiarly modern,up-to-date, doesn't it?  Well, it is the oldest name on earth--thousands of years older than Adam.  It is the ancientChaldean Meridug, or Merodach.  He was the young god whointerceded continually between the angry, omnipotent Ea,his father, and the humble and unhappy Damkina, or Earth,who was his mother.  This is interesting from anotherpoint of view, because this Merodach or Marmaduke is,so far as we can see now, the original prototype of our'divine intermediary' idea.  I daresay, though, that if wecould go back still other scores of centuries, we shouldfind whole receding series of types of this Christ-myth of ours."Theron Ware sat upright at the fall of these words,and flung a swift, startled look about the room--the instinctive glance of a man unexpectedly confrontedwith peril, and casting desperately about for means of defenceand escape.  For the instant his mind was aflame with thisvivid impression--that he was among sinister enemies,at the mercy of criminals.  He half rose under the impellingstress of this feeling, with the sweat standing on his brow,and his jaw dropped in a scared and bewildered stare.Then, quite as suddenly, the sense of shock was gone;and it was as if nothing at all had happened. He drew a long breath, took another sip of his coffee,and found himself all at once reflecting almost pleasurablyupon the charm of contact with really educated people. He leaned back in the big chair again, and smiled to showthese men of the world how much at his ease he was. It required an effort, he discovered, but he made it bravely,and hoped he was succeeding."It hasn't been in my power to at all lay hold of whatthe world keeps on learning nowadays about its babyhood,"he said.  "All I have done is to try to preserve anopen mind, and to maintain my faith that the more we know,the nearer we shall approach the Throne."Dr. Ledsmar abruptly scuffled his feet on the floor,and took out his watch.  "I'm afraid--" he began."No, no!  There's plenty of time," remarked the priest,with his soft half-smile and purring tones.  "You finishyour cigar here with Mr. Ware, and excuse me while I rundown and get rid of the people in the hall."Father Forbes tossed his cigar-end into the fender. Then he took from the mantel a strange three-corneredblack-velvet cap, with a dangling silk tassel at the side,put it on his head, and went out.Theron, being left alone with the doctor, hardly knew whatto do or say.  He took up a paper from the floor beside him,but realized that it would be impolite to go farther,and laid it on his knee.  Some trace of that earliermomentary feeling that he was in hostile hands came back,and worried him.  He lifted himself upright in the chair,and then became conscious that what really disturbed himwas the fact that Dr. Ledsmar had turned in his seat,crossed his legs, and was contemplating him with a gravelyconcentrated scrutiny through his spectacles.This uncomfortable gaze kept itself up a long waybeyond the point of good manners; but the doctor seemednot to mind that at all.CHAPTER VIIIWhen Dr. Ledsmar finally spoke, it was in a kindlier tonethan the young minister had looked for.  "I had half a notionof going to hear you preach the other evening," he said;"but at the last minute I backed out.  I daresay I shallpluck up the courage, sooner or later, and really go. It must be fully twenty years since I last heard a sermon,and I had supposed that that would suffice for the restof my life.  But they tell me that you are worth while;and, for some reason or other, I find myself curious onthe subject."Involved and dubious though the compliment might be,Theron felt himself flushing with satisfaction.  He noddedhis acknowledgment, and changed the topic."I was surprised to hear Father Forbes say that he didnot preach," he remarked."Why should he?" asked the doctor, indifferently. "I suppose he hasn't more than fifteen parishionersin a thousand who would understand him if he did,and of these probably twelve would join in a complaintto his Bishop about the heterodox tone of his sermon. There is no point in his going to all that pains,merely to incur that risk.  Nobody wants him to preach,and he has reached an age where personal vanity no longertempts him to do so.  What IS wanted of him is that heshould be the paternal, ceremonial, authoritative headand centre of his flock, adviser, monitor, overseer,elder brother, friend, patron, seigneur--whatever you like--everything except a bore.  They draw the line at that. You see how diametrically opposed this Catholic point ofview is to the Protestant.""The difference does seem extremely curious to me,"said Theron.  "Now, those people in the hall--""Go on," put in the doctor, as the other faltered hesitatingly. "I know what you were going to say.  It struck youas odd that he should let them wait on the bench there,while he came up here to smoke."Theron smiled faintly.  "I WAS thinking that my--my parishioners wouldn't have taken it so quietly. But of course--it is all so different!""As chalk from cheese!" said Dr. Ledsmar, lighting afresh cigar.  "I daresay every one you saw there had comeeither to take the pledge, or see to it that one of theothers took it.  That is the chief industry in the hall,so far as I have observed.  Now discipline is an importantelement in the machinery here.  Coming to take the pledgeimplies that you have been drunk and are now ashamed. Both states have their values, but they are opposed. Sitting on that bench tends to develop penitence to theprejudice of alcoholism.  But at no stage would it everoccur to the occupant of the bench that he was the bestjudge of how long he was to sit there, or that his priestshould interrupt his dinner or general personal routine,in order to administer that pledge.  Now, I daresay youhave no people at all coming to 'swear off.'"The Rev. Mr. Ware shook his head.  "No; if a man with usgot as bad as all that, he wouldn't come near the churchat all.  He'd simply drop out, and there would be an endto it.""Quite so," interjected the doctor.  "That is thevoluntary system.  But these fellows can't drop out. There's no bottom to the Catholic Church.  Everythingthat's in, stays in.  If you don't mind my saying so--of course I view you all impartially from the outside--but it seems logical to me that a church should existfor those who need its help, and not for those who by theirown profession are so good already that it is they whohelp the church.  Now, you turn a man out of your churchwho behaves badly:  that must be on the theory that hisremaining in would injure the church, and that in turninvolves the idea that it is the excellent characterof the parishioners which imparts virtue to the church. The Catholics' conception, you see, is quite the converse. Such virtue as they keep in stock is on tap, so to speak,here in the church itself, and the parishioners come andget some for themselves according to their need for it. Some come every day, some only once a year, some perhapsnever between their baptism and their funeral.  But theyall have a right here, the professional burglar every whitas much as the speckless saint.  The only stipulationis that they oughtn't to come under false pretences: the burglar is in honor bound not to pass himself off to hispriest as the saint.  But that is merely a moral obligation,established in the burglar's own interest.  It doeshim no good to come unless he feels that he is playingthe rules of the game, and one of these is confession. If he cheats there, he knows that he is cheatingnobody but himself, and might much better have stoppedaway altogether."Theron nodded his head comprehendingly.  He had a greatmany views about the Romanish rite of confession which didnot at all square with this statement of the case, but thisdid not seem a specially fit time for bringing them forth. There was indeed a sense of languid repletion in his mind,as if it had been overfed and wanted to lie down for awhile. He contented himself with nodding again, and murmuringreflectively, "Yes, it is all strangely different."His tone was an invitation to silence; and the doctor turnedhis attention to the cigar, studying its ash for a minutewith an air of deep meditation, and then solemnly blowingout a slow series of smoke-rings. Theron watched himwith an indolent, placid eye, wondering lazily if it was,after all, so very pleasant to smoke.There fell upon this silence--with a softness so delicatethat it came almost like a progression in the hush--the sound of sweet music.  For a little, strain and sourcewere alike indefinite--an impalpable setting to harmonyof the mellowed light, the perfumed opalescence of the air,the luxury and charm of the room.  Then it rose as by asweeping curve of beauty, into a firm, calm, severe melody,delicious to the ear, but as cold in the mind's visionas moonlit sculpture.  It went on upward with statelycollectedness of power, till the atmosphere seemed allalive with the trembling consciousness of the presenceof lofty souls, sternly pure and pitilessly great.Theron found himself moved as he had never been before. He almost resented the discovery, when it was presentedto him by the prosaic, mechanical side of his brain,that he was listening to organ-music, and that it camethrough the open window from the church close by. He would fain have reclined in his chair and closedhis eyes, and saturated himself with the uttermost fulnessof the sensation.  Yet, in absurd despite of himself,he rose and moved over to the window.Only a narrow alley separated the pastorate from the church;Mr. Ware could have touched with a walking-stick theopposite wall.  Indirectly facing him was the arched andmullioned top of a great window.  A dim light from within shonethrough the more translucent portions of the glass below,throwing out faint little bars of party-colored radianceupon the blackness of the deep passage-way. He couldvaguely trace by these the outlines of some sort of pictureon the window.  There were human figures in it, and--yes--up here in the centre, nearest him, was a woman's head. There was a halo about it, engirdling rich, flowing wavesof reddish hair, the lights in which glowed like flame. The face itself was barely distinguishable, but itshalf-suggested form raised a curious sense of resemblanceto some other face.  He looked at it closely, blankly,the noble music throbbing through his brain meanwhile."It's that Madden girl!" he suddenly heard a voice sayby his side.  Dr. Ledsmar had followed him to the window,and was close at his shoulder.Theron's thoughts were upon the puzzling shadowedlineaments on the stained glass.  He saw now in a flashthe resemblance which had baffled him.  "It IS like her,of course," he said."Yes, unfortunately, it IS just like her," replied the doctor,with a hostile note in his voice.  "Whenever I amdining here, she always goes in and kicks up that racket. She knows I hate it.""Oh, you mean that it is she who is playing," remarked Theron. "I thought you referred to--at least--I was thinking of--"His sentence died off in inconsequence.  He had afeeling that he did not want to talk with the doctorabout the stained-glass likeness.  The music had sunkaway now into fragmentary and unconnected passages,broken here and there by abrupt stops.  Dr. Ledsmarstretched an arm out past him and shut the window. "Let's hear as little of the row as we can," he said,and the two went back to their chairs."Pardon me for the question," the Rev. Mr. Ware said,after a pause which began to affect him as constrained,"but something you said about dining--you don'tlive here, then?  In the house, I mean?"The doctor laughed--a characteristically abrupt,dry little laugh, which struck Theron at once as bearinga sort of black-sheep relationship to the priest'shabitual chuckle.  "That must have been puzzling you no end,"he said--"that notion that the pastorate kept a devil'sadvocate on the premises.  No, Mr. Ware, I don't live here. I inhabit a house of my own--you may have seen it--an old-fashioned place up beyond the race-course,with a sort of tower at the back, and a big garden. But I dine here three or four times a week.  It is an oldarrangement of ours.  Vincent and I have been friendsfor many years now.  We are quite alone in the world,we two--much to our mutual satisfaction.  You must comeup and see me some time; come up and have a look overthe books we were speaking of.""I am much obliged," said Theron, without enthusiasm. The thought of the doctor by himself did not attracthim greatly.The reservation in his tone seemed to interest the doctor. "I suppose you are the first man I have asked in adozen years," he remarked, frankly willing that the youngminister should appreciate the favor extended him. "It must be fully that since anybody but Vincent Forbeshas been under my roof; that is, of my own species,I mean.""You live there quite alone," commented Theron."Quite--with my dogs and cats and lizards--and my Chinaman. I mustn't forget him."  The doctor noted the inquiryin the other's lifted brows, and smilingly explained. "He is my solitary servant.  Possibly he might not appealto you much; but I can assure you he used to interestOctavius a great deal when I first brought him here,ten years ago or so.  He afforded occupation for all theidle boys in the village for a twelve-month at least. They used to lie in wait for him all day long, with stonesor horse-chestnuts or snowballs, according to the season. The Irishmen from the wagon-works nearly killed himonce or twice, but he patiently lived it all down. The Chinaman has the patience to live everything down--the Caucasian races included.  He will see us all to bed,will that gentleman with the pigtail!"The music over in the church had lifted itself again into formand sequence, and defied the closed window.  If anything,it was louder than before, and the sonorous roar of thebass-pedals seemed to be shaking the very walls.  It wassomething with a big-lunged, exultant, triumphing swing in it--something which ought to have been sung on the battlefieldat the close of day by the whole jubilant army of victors. It was impossible to pretend not to be listening to it;but the doctor submitted with an obvious scowl, and bitoff the tip of his third cigar with an annoyed air."You don't seem to care much for music," suggested Mr. Ware,when a lull came.Dr. Ledsmar looked up, lighted match in hand. "Say musicians!" he growled.  "Has it ever occurred to you,"he went on, between puffs at the flame, "that the onlyanimals who make the noises we call music are of thebird family--a debased offshoot of the reptilian creation--the very lowest types of the vertebrata now in existence? I insist upon the parallel among humans.  I have inmy time, sir, had considerable opportunities for studyingclose at hand the various orders of mammalia who devotethemselves to what they describe as the arts.  It may sounda harsh judgement, but I am convinced that musicians standon the very bottom rung of the ladder in the sub-cellarof human intelligence, even lower than painters and actors."This seemed such unqualified nonsense to the Rev. Mr. Warethat he offered no comment whatever upon it. He tried instead to divert his thoughts to the stormystrains which rolled in through the vibrating brickwork,and to picture to himself the large, capable figure ofMiss Madden seated in the half-light at the organ-board,swaying to and fro in a splendid ecstasy of poweras she evoked at will this superb and ordered uproar. But the doctor broke insistently in upon his musings."All art, so-called, is decay," he said, raising his voice. "When a race begins to brood on the beautiful--so-called--it is a sign of rot, of getting ready to fall fromthe tree.  Take the Jews--those marvellous old fellows--who were never more than a handful, yet have imposedthe rule of their ideas and their gods upon us for fifteenhundred years.  Why?  They were forbidden by theirmost fundamental law to make sculptures or pictures. That was at a time when the Egyptians, when the Assyrians,and other Semites, were running to artistic riot. Every great museum in the world now has whole floorsdevoted to statues from the Nile, and marvellous carvingsfrom the palaces of Sargon and Assurbanipal.  You canget the artistic remains of the Jews during that wholeperiod into a child's wheelbarrow.  They had the senseand strength to penalize art; they alone survived. They saw the Egyptians go, the Assyrians go, the Greeks go,the late Romans go, the Moors in Spain go--all the artisticpeoples perish.  They remained triumphing over all. Now at last their long-belated apogee is here; their declineis at hand.  I am told that in this present generationin Europe the Jews are producing a great lot of youngpainters and sculptors and actors, just as for a centurythey have been producing famous composers and musicians. That means the end of the Jews!""What! have you only got as far as that?" came the welcomeinterruption of a cheery voice.  Father Forbes had enteredthe room, and stood looking down with a whimsical twinklein his eye from one to the other of his guests."You must have been taken over the ground at a very slow pace,Mr. Ware," he continued, chuckling softly, "to havearrived merely at the collapse of the New Jerusalem. I fancied I had given him time enough to bring youstraight up to the end of all of us, with that Chinamanof his gently slapping our graves with his pigtail. That's where the doctor always winds up, if he's allowedto run his course.""It has all been very interesting, extremely so, I assure you,"faltered Theron.  It had become suddenly apparent to himthat he desired nothing so much as to make his escape--that he had indeed only been waiting for the host's returnto do so.He rose at this, and explained that he must be going. No special effort being put forth to restrain him,he presently made his way out, Father Forbes hospitablyfollowing him down to the door, and putting a very graciouscordiality into his adieux.The night was warm and black.  Theron stood still in itthe moment the pastorate door had closed; the suddendarkness was so thick that it was as if he had closedhis eyes.  His dominant sensation was of a deep reliefand rest after some undue fatigue.  It crossed his mindthat drunken men probably felt like that as they leanedagainst things on their way home.  He was affected himself,he saw, by the weariness and half-nausea followinga mental intoxication.  The conceit pleased him,and he smiled to himself as he turned and took the firsthomeward steps.  It must be growing late, he thought. Alice would be wondering as she waited.There was a street lamp at the corner, and as he walkedtoward it he noted all at once that his feet were keepingstep to the movement of the music proceeding from theorgan within the church--a vaguely processional air,marked enough in measure, but still with a dreamy effect. It became a pleasure to identify his progress with the quaintrhythm of sound as he sauntered along.  He discovered,as he neared the light, that he was instinctively steppingover the seams in the flagstone sidewalk as he had doneas a boy.  He smiled again at this.  There was somethingexceptionally juvenile and buoyant about his mood,now that he examined it.  He set it down as a reaction fromthat doctor's extravagant and incendiary talk.  One thingwas certain--he would never be caught up at that housebeyond the race-course, with its reptiles and its Chinaman. Should he ever even go to the pastorate again?  He decidednot to quite definitely answer THAT in the negative,but as he felt now, the chances were all against it.Turning the corner, and walking off into the shadowsalong the side of the huge church building, Theron noted,almost at the end of the edifice, a small door--the entrance to a porch coming out to the sidewalk--which stood wide open.  A thin, pale, vertical lineof light showed that the inner door, too, was ajar.Through this wee aperture the organ-music, reducedand mellowed by distance, came to him again with thatsame curious, intimate, personal relation which had so movedhim at the start, before the doctor closed the window. It was as if it was being played for him alone.He paused for a doubting minute or two, with bowed head,listening to the exquisite harmony which floated out tocaress and soothe and enfold him.  There was no spiritual,or at least pious, effect in it now.  He fancied thatit must be secular music, or, if not, then somethingadapted to marriage ceremonies--rich, vivid, passionate,a celebration of beauty and the glory of possession,with its ruling note of joy only heightened by soft,wooing interludes, and here and there the tremor of a fond,timid little sob.Theron turned away irresolutely, half frightened at theundreamt-of impression this music was making upon him. Then, all at once, he wheeled and stepped boldly intothe porch, pushing the inner door open and hearing itrustle against its leathern frame as it swung to behind him.He had never been inside a Catholic church before.CHAPTER IXJeremiah Madden was supposed to be probably the richestman in Octavius.  There was no doubt at all about hisbeing its least pretentious citizen.The huge and ornate modern mansion which he had built,putting to shame every other house in the place, gave an effectof ostentation to the Maddens as a family; it seemed onlyto accentuate the air of humility which enveloped Jeremiahas with a garment.  Everybody knew some version of the manytales afloat which, in a kindly spirit, illustrated theincongruity between him and his splendid habitation. Some had it that he slept in the shed.  Others told whimsicalstories of his sitting alone in the kitchen evenings,smoking his old clay pipe, and sorrowing because thesecond Mrs. Madden would not suffer the pigs and chickensto come in and bear him company.  But no matter how comicthe exaggeration, these legends were invariably amiable. It lay in no man's mouth to speak harshly of Jeremiah Madden.He had been born a Connemara peasant, and he would die one. When he was ten years old he had seen some of hisown family, and most of his neighbors, starve to death. He could remember looking at the stiffened figure of a womanstretched on the stones by the roadside, with the greenstain of nettles on her white lips.  A girl five years orso older than himself, also a Madden and distantly related,had started in despair off across the mountains to the townwhere it was said the poor-law officers were dealingout food.  He could recall her coming back next day,wild-eyed with hunger and the fever; the officers hadrefused her relief because her bare legs were not whollyshrunken to the bone.  "While there's a calf on the shank,there's no starvation," they had explained to her. The girl died without profiting by this official apothegm. The boy found it burned ineffaceably upon his brain. Now, after a lapse of more than forty years, it seemedthe thing that he remembered best about Ireland.He had drifted westward as an unconsidered, unresisting itemin that vast flight of the famine years.  Others whomhe rubbed against in that melancholy exodus, and deemedof much greater promise than himself, had done badly. Somehow he did well.  He learned the wheelwright's trade,and really that seemed all there was to tell.  The resthad been calm and sequent progression--steady employmentas a journeyman first; then marriage and a house and lot;the modest start as a master; the move to Octavius andcheap lumber; the growth of his business, always markedof late years stupendous--all following naturally,easily, one thing out of another.  Jeremiah encounteredthe idea among his fellows, now and again, that he wasentitled to feel proud of all this.  He smiled to himselfat the thought, and then sent a sigh after the smile. What was it all but empty and transient vanity?  The scoreof other Connemara boys he had known--none very fortunate,several broken tragically in prison or the gutter,nearly all now gone the way of flesh--were as good as he. He could not have it in his heart to take credit forhis success; it would have been like sneering over theirpoor graves.Jeremiah Madden was now fifty-three--a little manof a reddened, weather-worn skin and a meditative,almost saddened, aspect.  He had blue eyes, but hisscanty iron-gray hair showed raven black in its shadows. The width and prominence of his cheek-bones dominated allone's recollections of his face.  The long vertical upper-lipand irregular teeth made, in repose, an unshapely mouth;its smile, though, sweetened the whole countenance. He wore a fringe of stiff, steel-colored beard, passing fromear to ear under his chin.  His week-day clothes wereas simple as his workaday manners, fitting his shortblack pipe and his steadfast devotion to his business. On Sundays he dressed with a certain rigor of respectability,all in black, and laid aside tobacco, at least to thepublic view.  He never missed going to the early Low Mass,quite alone.  His family always came later, at the teno'clock High Mass.There had been, at one time or another, a good manymembers of this family.  Two wives had borne JeremiahMadden a total of over a dozen children.  Of these theresurvived now only two of the first Mrs. Madden's offspring--Michael and Celia--and a son of the present wife, who hadbeen baptized Terence, but called himself Theodore. This minority of the family inhabited the great new houseon Main Street.  Jeremiah went every Sunday afternoonby himself to kneel in the presence of the majority,there where they lay in Saint Agnes' consecrated ground. If the weather was good, he generally extended hiswalk through the fields to an old deserted Catholicburial-field, which had been used only in the first yearsafter the famine invasion, and now was clean forgotten. The old wagon-maker liked to look over the primitive,neglected stones which marked the graves of these earlier exiles. Fully half of the inscriptions mentioned his County Galway--there were two naming the very parish adjoining his. The latest date on any stone was of the remoter 'fifties. They had all been stricken down, here in this strangeland with its bitter winters, while the memory of theirown soft, humid, gentle west-coast air was fresh within them. Musing upon the clumsy sculpture, with its "R.I.P.," or"Pray for the Soul of," half to be guessed under the stainand moss of a generation, there would seem to him but a stepfrom this present to that heart-rending, awful past. What had happened between was a meaningless vision--as impersonal as the passing of the planets overhead. He rarely had an impulse to tears in the new cemetery,where his ten children were.  He never left this weed-grown,forsaken old God's-acre dry-eyed.One must not construct from all this the image of amelancholy man, as his fellows met and knew him.  Mr. Maddenkept his griefs, racial and individual, for his own use. To the men about him in the offices and the shops hepresented day after day, year after year, an imperturbablecheeriness of demeanor.  He had been always fortunatein the selection of lieutenants and chief helpers. Two of these had grown now into partners, and were almostas much a part of the big enterprise as Jeremiah himself. They spoke often of their inability to remember any unjustor petulant word of his--much less any unworthy deed. Once they had seen him in a great rage, all the more impressivebecause he said next to nothing.  A thoughtless fellowtold a dirty story in the presence of some apprentices;and Madden, listening to this, drove the offender implacablyfrom his employ.  It was years now since any one who knewhim had ventured upon lewd pleasantries in his hearing. Jokes of the sort which women might hear he was veryfond of though he had not much humor of his own. Of books he knew nothing whatever, and he made onlythe most perfunctory pretence now and again of readingthe newspapers.The elder son Michael was very like his father--diligent,unassuming, kindly, and simple--a plain, tall, thin red manof nearly thirty, who toiled in paper cap and rolled-upshirt-sleeves as the superintendent in the saw-mill,and put on no airs whatever as the son of the master. If there was surprise felt at his not being taken intothe firm as a partner, he gave no hint of sharing it. He attended to his religious duties with great zeal,and was President of the Sodality as a matter of course. This was regarded as his blind side; and young employeeswho cultivated it, and made broad their phylacteriesunder his notice, certainly had an added chance ofgetting on well in the works.  To some few whom he knewspecially well, Michael would confess that if he had hadthe brains for it, he should have wished to be a priest. He displayed no inclination to marry.The other son, Terence, was some eight years younger,and seemed the product of a wholly different race. The contrast between Michael's sandy skin and long gauntvisage and this dark boy's handsome, rounded face,with its prettily curling black hair, large, heavilyfringed brown eyes, and delicately modelled features,was not more obvious than their temperamental separation. This second lad had been away for years at school,--indeed, at a good many schools, for no one seemed tomanage to keep him long.  He had been with the Jesuitsat Georgetown, with the Christian Brothers at Manhattan;the sectarian Mt.  St. Mary's and the severely secularAnnapolis had both been tried, and proved misfits. The young man was home again now, and save that hisname had become Theodore, he appeared in no wisechanged from the beautiful, wilful, bold, and showy boywho had gone away in his teens.  He was still rathersmall for his years, but so gracefully moulded in form,and so perfectly tailored, that the fact seemed ratheran advantage than otherwise.  He never dreamed of goingnear the wagon-works, but he did go a good deal--in fact,most of the time--to the Nedahma Club.  His mother spokeoften to her friends about her fears for his health. He never spoke to his friends about his mother at all.The second Mrs. Madden did not, indeed, appeal stronglyto the family pride.  She had been a Miss Foley,a dress-maker, and an old maid.  Jeremiah had marriedher after a brief widowerhood, principally because shewas the sister of his parish priest, and had a considerablereputation for piety.  It was at a time when the expansionof his business was promising certain wealth, and suggestingthe removal to Octavius.  He was conscious of a notion thathis obligations to social respectability were increasing;it was certain that the embarrassments of a motherlessfamily were.  Miss Foley had shown a good deal of attentionto his little children.  She was not ill-looking;she bore herself with modesty; she was the priest's sister--the niece once removed of a vicar-general. And so it came about.Although those most concerned did not say so, everybodycould see from the outset the pity of its ever havingcome about at all.  The pious and stiffly respectablepriest's sister had been harmless enough as a spinster. It made the heart ache to contemplate her as a wife. Incredibly narrow-minded, ignorant, suspicious, vain,and sour-tempered, she must have driven a less equable andwell-rooted man than Jeremiah Madden to drink or flight. He may have had his temptations, but they made no mark onthe even record of his life.  He only worked the harder,concentrating upon his business those extra hours whichanother sort of home-life would have claimed instead. The end of twenty years found him a rich man, but stilltoiling pertinaciously day by day, as if he had his wageto earn.  In the great house which had been built to please,or rather placate, his wife, he kept to himself as muchas possible.  The popular story of his smoking alonein the kitchen was more or less true; only Michael as arule sat with him, too weak-lunged for tobacco himself,but reading stray scraps from the papers to the lonelyold man, and talking with him about the works,the while Jeremiah meditatively sucked his clay pipe. One or two evenings in the week the twain spent up in Celia'spart of the house, listening with the awe of simple,honest mechanics to the music she played for them.Celia was to them something indefinably less, indescribably more,than a daughter and sister.  They could not think therehad ever been anything like her before in the world;the notion of criticising any deed or word of herswould have appeared to them monstrous and unnatural.She seemed to have come up to this radiant and wise andmarvellously talented womanhood of hers, to their minds,quite spontaneously.  There had been a little Celia--a red-headed, sulky, mutinous slip of a girl, always at warwith her step-mother, and affording no special comfortor hope to the rest of the family.  Then there was along gap, during which the father, four times a year,handed Michael a letter he had received from the superioressof a distant convent, referring with cold formalityto the studies and discipline by which Miss Maddenmight profit more if she had been better brought up,and enclosing a large bill.  Then all at once they behelda big Celia, whom they spoke of as being home again,but who really seemed never to have been there before--a tall, handsome, confident young woman, swift of tongueand apprehension, appearing to know everything there wasto be known by the most learned, able to paint pictures,carve wood, speak in divers languages, and make music forthe gods, yet with it all a very proud lady, one might saya queen.The miracle of such a Celia as this impressed itselfeven upon the step-mother. Mrs. Madden had lookedforward with a certain grim tightening of her combativejaws to the home-coming of the "red-head." She feltherself much more the fine lady now than she had beenwhen the girl went away.  She had her carriage now,and the magnificent new house was nearly finished,and she had a greater number of ailments, and spentfar more money on doctor's bills, than any other ladyin the whole section.  The flush of pride in her greatestachievement up to date--having the most celebrated of NewYork physicians brought up to Octavius by special train--still prickled in her blood.  It was in all the papers,and the admiration of the flatterers and "soft-sawdherers"--wives of Irish merchants and smaller professional menwho formed her social circle--was raising visions in herpoor head of going next year with Theodore to Saratoga,and fastening the attention of the whole fashionablerepublic upon the variety and resources of her invalidism. Mrs. Madden's fancy did not run to the length of seeingher step-daughter also at Saratoga; it pictured her stillas the sullen and hated "red-head," moping defiantlyin corners, or courting by her insolence the punishmentswhich leaped against their leash in the step-mother'smind to get at her.The real Celia, when she came, fairly took Mrs. Madden'sbreath away.  The peevish little plans for annoyance and tyranny,the resolutions born of ignorant and jealous egotism,found themselves swept out of sight by the very first swirlof Celia's dress-train, when she came down from her roomrobed in peacock blue.  The step-mother could only stare.Now, after two years of it, Mrs. Madden still viewed herstep-daughter with round-eyed uncertainty, not unmixedwith wrathful fear.  She still drove about behind twomagnificent horses; the new house had become almosttiresome by familiarity; her pre-eminence in the interestedminds of the Dearborn County Medical Society was astowering as ever, but somehow it was all different. There was a note of unreality nowadays in Mrs. Donnelly'sprofessions of wonder at her bearing up under hermultiplied maladies; there was almost a leer of mockeryin the sympathetic smirk with which the Misses Manganlistened to her symptoms.  Even the doctors, though theykept their faces turned toward her, obviously did not paymuch attention; the people in the street seemed no longerto look at her and her equipage at all.  Worst of all,something of the meaning of this managed to penetrateher own mind.  She caught now and again a dim glimpseof herself as others must have been seeing her for years--as a stupid, ugly, boastful, and bad-tempered old nuisance. And it was always as if she saw this in a mirror heldup by Celia.Of open discord there had been next to none.  Celia wouldnot permit it, and showed this so clearly from thestart that there was scarcely need for her saying it. It seemed hardly necessary for her to put into words anyof her desires, for that matter.  All existing arrangementsin the Madden household seemed to shrink automaticallyand make room for her, whichever way she walked.  A wholequarter of the unfinished house set itself apart for her. Partitions altered themselves; door-ways moved acrossto opposite sides; a recess opened itself, tall and deep,for it knew not what statue--simply because, it seemed,the Lady Celia willed it so.When the family moved into this mansion, it was with aconsciousness that the only one who really belonged therewas Celia.  She alone could behave like one perfectly at home. It seemed entirely natural to the others that she shoulddo just what she liked, shut them off from her portionof the house, take her meals there if she felt disposed,and keep such hours as pleased her instant whim.  If sheawakened them at midnight by her piano, or deferred herbreakfast to the late afternoon, they felt that it must beall right, since Celia did it.  She had one room furnishedwith only divans and huge, soft cushions, its walls coveredwith large copies of statuary not too strictly clothed,which she would suffer no one, not even the servants,to enter.  Michael fancied sometimes, when he passed thedraped entrance to this sacred chamber, that the portieresmelt of tobacco, but he would not have spoken of it,even had he been sure.  Old Jeremiah, whose established habitit was to audit minutely the expenses of his household,covered over round sums to Celia's separate banking account,upon the mere playful hint of her holding her check-book up,without a dream of questioning her.That the step-mother had joy, or indeed anything but galland wormwood, out of all this is not to be pretended. There lingered along in the recollection of the family somevague memories of her having tried to assert an authorityover Celia's comings and goings at the outset, but theygrouped themselves as only parts of the general disorder ofmoving and settling, which a fort-night or so quite righted. Mrs. Madden still permitted herself a certain licenseof hostile comment when her step-daughter was not present,and listened with gratification to what the women of heracquaintance ventured upon saying in the same spirit;but actual interference or remonstrance she neveroffered nowadays.  The two rarely met, for that matter,and exchanged only the baldest and curtest forms of speech.Celia Madden interested all Octavius deeply.  This shemust have done in any case, if only because she wasthe only daughter of its richest citizen.  But the bold,luxuriant quality of her beauty, the original and piquantfreedom of her manners, the stories told in gossip abouther lawlessness at home, her intellectual attainments,and artistic vagaries--these were even more exciting. The unlikelihood of her marrying any one--at leastany Octavian--was felt to add a certain romantic zestto the image she made on the local perceptions. There was no visible young Irishman at all approachingthe social and financial standard of the Maddens;it was taken for granted that a mixed marriage was quiteout of the question in this case.  She seemed to havemore business about the church than even the priest. She was always playing the organ, or drilling the choir,or decorating the altars with flowers, or looking overthe robes of the acolytes for rents and stains, or goingin or out of the pastorate.  Clearly this was not the sortof girl to take a Protestant husband.The gossip of the town concerning her was, however,exclusively Protestant.  The Irish spoke of her,even among themselves, but seldom.  There was no occasionfor them to pretend to like her:  they did not know her,except in the most distant and formal fashion. Even the members of the choir, of both sexes, had the senseof being held away from her at haughty arm's length. No single parishioner dreamed of calling her friend. But when they referred to her, it was always with a cautiousand respectful reticence.  For one thing, she was the daughterof their chief man, the man they most esteemed and loved. For another, reservations they may have had in their soulsabout her touched close upon a delicately sore spot. It could not escape their notice that their Protestantneighbors were watching her with vigilant curiosity,and with a certain tendency to wink when her name cameinto conversation along with that of Father Forbes. It had never yet got beyond a tendency--the barestfluttering suggestion of a tempted eyelid--but thewhole Irish population of the place felt themselvesto be waiting, with clenched fists but sinking hearts,for the wink itself.The Rev. Theron Ware had not caught even the faintesthint of these overtures to suspicion.When he had entered the huge, dark, cool vault of the church,he could see nothing at first but a faint light up overthe gallery, far at the other end.  Then, little by little,his surroundings shaped themselves out of the gloom. To his right was a rail and some broad steps rising towarda softly confused mass of little gray vertical barsand the pale twinkle of tiny spots of gilded reflection,which he made out in the dusk to be the candles andtrappings of the altar.  Overhead the great arches fadedaway from foundations of dimly discernible capitals intoutter blackness.  There was a strange medicinal odor--as of cubeb cigarettes--in the air.After a little pause, he tiptoed noiselessly up the sideaisle toward the end of the church--toward the light abovethe gallery.  This radiance from a single gas-jet expandedas he advanced, and spread itself upward over a burnishedrow of monster metal pipes, which went towering intothe darkness like giants.  They were roaring at him now--a sonorous, deafening, angry bellow, which made everythingabout him vibrate.  The gallery balustrade hid the keyboardand the organist from view.  There were only thesejostling brazen tubes, as big round as trees and as tall,trembling with their own furious thunder.  It was for allthe world as if he had wandered into some vast tragical,enchanted cave, and was being drawn against his will--like fascinated bird and python--toward fate at the savagehands of these swollen and enraged genii.He stumbled in the obscure light over a kneeling-bench,making a considerable racket.  On the instant the noisefrom the organ ceased, and he saw the black figureof a woman rise above the gallery-rail and look down."Who is it?" the indubitable voice of Miss Maddendemanded sharply.Theron had a sudden sheepish notion of turning and running. With the best grace he could summon, he called out anexplanation instead."Wait a minute.  I'm through now.  I'm coming down,"she returned.  He thought there was a note of amusementin her tone.She came to him a moment later, accompanied by a thin,tall man, whom Theron could barely see in the dark,now that the organ-light too was gone.  This man lighteda match or two to enable them to make their way out.When they were on the sidewalk, Celia spoke:  "Walk on ahead,Michael!" she said.  "I have some matters to speak of with Mr. Ware."CHAPTER X"Well, what did you think of Dr. Ledsmar?"The girl's abrupt question came as a relief to Theron. They were walking along in a darkness so nearly completethat he could see next to nothing of his companion. For some reason, this seemed to suggest a sort of impropriety. He had listened to the footsteps of the man ahead--whom he guessed to be a servant--and pictured himas intent upon getting up early next morning to telleverybody that the Methodist minister had stolen into theCatholic church at night to walk home with Miss Madden. That was going to be very awkward--yes, worse than awkward! It might mean ruin itself.  She had mentionedaloud that she had matters to talk over with him: that of course implied confidences, and the man mightput heaven only knew what construction on that. It was notorious that servants did ascribe the very worstmotives to those they worked for.  The bare thought ofthe delight an Irish servant would have in also dragginga Protestant clergyman into the thing was sickening. And what could she want to talk to him about, anyway? The minute of silence stretched itself out upon his nervesinto an interminable period of anxious unhappiness. Her mention of the doctor at last somehow, seemed to lightenthe situation."Oh, I thought he was very smart."  he made haste to answer. "Wouldn't it be better--to--keep close to your man? He--may--think we've gone some other way.""It wouldn't matter if he did," remarked Celia. She appeared to comprehend his nervousness and take pityon it, for she added, "It is my brother Michael, as gooda soul as ever lived.  He is quite used to my ways."The Rev. Mr. Ware drew a long comforting breath. "Oh, I see!  He went with you to--bring you home.""To blow the organ," said the girl in the dark, correctingly. "But about that doctor; did you like him?""Well," Theron began, "'like' is rather a strong wordfor so short an acquaintance.  He talked very well;that is, fluently.  But he is so different from any otherman I have come into contact with that--""What I wanted you to say was that you hated him,"put in Celia, firmly."I don't make a practice of saying that of anybody,"returned Theron, so much at his ease again that he putan effect of gentle, smiling reproof into the words. "And why specially should I make an exception for him?""Because he's a beast!"Theron fancied that he understood.  "I noticed that heseemed not to have much of an ear for music," he commented,with a little laugh.  "He shut down the window when youbegan to play.  His doing so annoyed me, because I--I wanted very much to hear it all.  I never heard suchmusic before.  I--I came into the church to hear more of it;but then you stopped!""I will play for you some other time," Celia said,answering the reproach in his tone.  "But tonight I wantedto talk with you instead."She kept silent, in spite of this, so long nowthat Theron was on the point of jestingly askingwhen the talk was to begin.  Then she put a question abruptly--"It is a conventional way of putting it, but are you fondof poetry, Mr. Ware?""Well, yes, I suppose I am," replied Theron, much mystified. "I can't say that I am any great judge; but I like thethings that I like--and--""Meredith," interposed Celia, "makes one of his women,Emilia in England, say that poetry is like talking on tiptoe;like animals in cages, always going to one end and back again. Does it impress you that way?""I don't know that it does," said he, dubiously. It seemed, however, to be her whim to talk literature,and he went on:  "I've hardly read Meredith at all. I once borrowed his 'Lucile,' but somehow I never gotinterested in it.  I heard a recitation of his once, though--a piece about a dead wife, and the husband and anotherman quarrelling as to whose portrait was in the locketon her neck, and of their going up to settle the dispute,and finding that it was the likeness of a third man,a young priest--and though it was very striking,it didn't give me a thirst to know his other poems. I fancied I shouldn't like them.  But I daresay I was wrong. As I get older, I find that I take less narrow viewsof literature--that is, of course, of light literature--and that--that--"Celia mercifully stopped him.  "The reason I askedyou was--" she began, and then herself paused.  "Or no,--never mind that--tell me something else.  Are you fondof pictures, statuary, the beautiful things of the world? Do great works of art, the big achievements of the big artists,appeal to you, stir you up?""Alas! that is something I can only guess at myself,"answered Theron, humbly.  "I have always lived inlittle places.  I suppose, from your point of view,I have never seen a good painting in my life.  I can onlysay this, though--that it has always weighed on my mindas a great and sore deprivation, this being shut out fromknowing what others mean when they talk and write about art. Perhaps that may help you to get at what you are after. If I ever went to New York, I feel that one of the firstthings I should do would be to see all the picture galleries;is that what you meant?  And--would you mind telling me--why you--?""Why I asked you?"  Celia supplied his halting question. "No, I DON'T mind.  I have a reason for wanting to know--to satisfy myself whether I had guessed rightly or not--about the kind of man you are.  I mean in the matter oftemperament and bent of mind and tastes."The girl seemed to be speaking seriously, and withoutintent to offend.  Theron did not find any comment ready,but walked along by her side, wondering much what it wasall about."I daresay you think me 'too familiar on short acquaintance,'"she continued, after a little."My dear Miss Madden!" he protested perfunctorily."No; it is a matter of a good deal of importance,"she went on.  "I can see that you are going to be throwninto friendship, close contact, with Father Forbes. He likes you, and you can't help liking him.  There is nobodyelse in this raw, overgrown, empty-headed place for youand him TO like, nobody except that man, that Dr. Ledsmar. And if you like HIM, I shall hate you!  He has donemischief enough already.  I am counting on you to helpundo it, and to choke him off from doing more.  It wouldbe different if you were an ordinary Orthodox minister,all encased like a terrapin in prejudices and nonsense. Of course, if you had been THAT kind, we should never havegot to know you at all.  But when I saw you in MacEvoy'scottage there, it was plain that you were one of US--I mean a MAN, and not a marionette or a mummy. I am talking very frankly to you, you see.  I want youon my side, against that doctor and his heartless,bloodless science.""I feel myself very heartily on your side," replied Theron. She had set their progress at a slower pace, now that thelights of the main street were drawing near, as if to prolongtheir talk.  All his earlier reservations had fled. It was almost as if she were a parishioner of his own. "I need hardly tell you that the doctor's whole attitudetoward--toward revelation--was deeply repugnant to me. It doesn't make it any the less hateful to call it science. I am afraid, though," he went on hesitatingly, "that thereare difficulties in the way of my helping, as you call it. You see, the very fact of my being a Methodist minister,and his being a Catholic priest, rather puts my interferenceout of the question.""No; that doesn't matter a button," said Celia, lightly. "None of us think of that at all.""There is the other embarrassment, then," pursued Theron,diffidently, "that Father Forbes is a vastly broader anddeeper scholar--in all these matters--than I am.  How couldI possibly hope to influence him by my poor arguments? I don't know even the alphabet of the language he thinks in--on these subjects, I mean.""Of course you don't!" interposed the girl, with aconfidence which the other, for all his meekness,rather winced under.  "That wasn't what I meantat all.  We don't want arguments from our friends: we want sympathies, sensibilities, emotional bonds. The right person's silence is worth more for companionshipthan the wisest talk in the world from anybody else. It isn't your mind that is needed here, or what you know;it is your heart, and what you feel.  You are fullof poetry, of ideals, of generous, unselfish impulses. You see the human, the warm-blooded side of things. THAT is what is really valuable.  THAT is how youcan help!""You overestimate me sadly," protested Theron, though withconsiderable tolerance for her error in his tone. "But you ought to tell me something about this Dr. Ledsmar. He spoke of being an old friend of the pr--of Father Forbes.""Oh, yes, they've always known each other; that is,for many years.  They were professors together in a college once,heaven only knows how long ago.  Then they separated,"I fancy they quarrelled, too, before they parted. The doctor came here, where some relative had left himthe place he lives in.  Then in time the Bishop chancedto send Father Forbes here--that was about three years ago,--and the two men after a while renewed their old relations. They dine together; that is the doctor's stronghold. He knows more about eating than any other man alive,I believe.  He studies it as you would study a language. He has taught old Maggie, at the pastorate there,to cook like the mother of all the Delmonicos. And while they sit and stuff themselves, or loll aboutafterward like gorged snakes, they think it is smartto laugh at all the sweet and beautiful things in life,and to sneer at people who believe in ideals, and totalk about mankind being merely a fortuitous productof fermentation, and twaddle of that sort.  It makesme sick!""I can readily see," said Theron, with sympathy, "how sucha cold, material, and infidel influence as that must shockand revolt an essentially religious temperament like yours."Miss Madden looked up at him.  They had turned into themain street, and there was light enough for him to detectsomething startlingly like a grin on her beautiful face."But I'm not religious at all, you know," he heard her say. "I'm as Pagan as--anything!  Of course there are forms tobe observed, and so on; I rather like them than otherwise. I can make them serve very well for my own system; for Iam myself, you know, an out-an-out Greek.""Why, I had supposed that you were full blooded Irish,"the Rev. Mr. Ware found himself remarking, and thenon the instant was overwhelmed by the consciousnessthat he had said a foolish thing.  Precisely wherethe folly lay he did not know, but it was impossibleto mistake the gesture of annoyance which his companionhad instinctively made at his words.  She had widenedthe distance between them now, and quickened her step. They went on in silence till they were within a blockof her house.  Several people had passed them who Theronfelt sure must have recognized them both."What I meant was," the girl all at once began, drawingnearer again, and speaking with patient slowness, "that Ifind myself much more in sympathy with the Greek thought,the Greek theology of the beautiful and the strong,the Greek philosophy of life, and all that, than what istaught nowadays.  Personally, I take much more stockin Plato than I do in Peter.  But of course it is a whollypersonal affair; I had no business to bother you with it. And for that matter, I oughtn't to have troubled youwith any of our--""I assure you, Miss Madden!" the young minister began,with fervor."No," she broke in, in a resigned and even downcast tone;"let it all be as if I hadn't spoken.  Don't mind anythingI have said.  If it is to be, it will be.  You can't saymore than that, can you?"She looked into his face again, and her large eyesproduced an impression of deep melancholy, which Theronfound himself somehow impelled to share.  Things seemedall at once to have become very sad indeed."It is one of my unhappy nights," she explained,in gloomy confidence.  "I get them every once in a while--as if some vicious planet or other was crossing in frontof my good star--and then I'm a caution to snakes. I shut myself up--that's the only thing to do--and have itout with myself I didn't know but the organ-music wouldcalm me down, but it hasn't. I shan't sleep a wink tonight,but just rage around from one room to another,piling all the cushions from the divans on to the floor,and then kicking them away again.  Do YOU ever have fitslike that?"Theron was able to reply with a good conscience inthe negative.  It occurred to him to add, with jocose intent: "I am curious to know, do these fits, as you call them,occupy a prominent part in Grecian philosophy as a general rule?"Celia gave a little snort, which might have signifiedamusement, but did not speak until they were upon herown sidewalk.  "There is my brother, waiting at the gate,"she said then, briefly."Well, then, I will bid you good-night here, I think,"Theron remarked, coming to a halt, and offering his hand. "It must be getting very late, and my--that is--I haveto be up particularly early tomorrow.  So good-night;I hope you will be feeling ever so much better in spirits inthe morning.""Oh, that doesn't matter," replied the girl, listlessly. "It's a very paltry little affair, this life of ours,at the best of it.  Luckily it's soon done with--like a bad dream.""Tut!  Tut!  I won't have you talk like that!"interrupted Theron, with a swift and smart assumptionof authority.  "Such talk isn't sensible, and it isn't good. I have no patience with it!""Well, try and have a little patience with ME, anyway,just for tonight," said Celia, taking the reproof withgentlest humility, rather to her censor's surprise. "I really am unhappy tonight, Mr. Ware, very unhappy. It seems as if all at once the world had swelled out insize a thousandfold, and that poor me had dwindled downto the merest wee little red-headed atom--the most helplessand forlorn and lonesome of atoms at that."  She seemedto force a sorrowful smile on her face as she added: "But all the same it has done me good to be with you--I am sure it has--and I daresay that by tomorrow I shallbe quite out of the blues.  Good-night, Mr. Ware. Forgive my making such an exhibition of myself I WASgoing to be such a fine early Greek, you know, and I haveturned out only a late Milesian--quite of the decadence. I shall do better next time.  And good-night again,and ever so many thanks."She was walking briskly away toward the gate now,where the shadowy Michael still patiently stood. Theron strode off in the opposite direction, taking long,deliberate steps, and bowing his head in thought. He had his hands behind his back, as was his wont,and the sense of their recent contact with her firm,ungloved hands was, curiously enough, the thing which pusheditself uppermost in his mind.  There had been a frank,almost manly vigor in her grasp; he said to himselfthat of course that came from her playing so much onthe keyboard; the exercise naturally would give her large,robust hands.Suddenly he remembered about the piano; he had quiteforgotten to solicit her aid in selecting it.  He turned,upon the impulse, to go back.  She had not entered the gateas yet, but stood, shiningly visible under the street lamp,on the sidewalk, and she was looking in his direction. He turned again like a shot, and started homeward.The front door of the parsonage was unlocked, and hemade his way on tiptoe through the unlighted hall to theliving-room. The stuffy air here was almost suffocatingwith the evil smell of a kerosene lamp turned down too low. Alice sat asleep in her old farmhouse rocking-chair, withan inelegant darning-basket on the table by her side. The whole effect of the room was as bare and squalidto Theron's newly informed eye as the atmosphere wasoffensive to his nostrils.  He coughed sharply, and hiswife sat up and looked at the clock.  It was after eleven."Where on earth have you been?" she asked, with a yawn,turning up the wick of her sewing-lamp again."You ought never to turn down a light like that,"said Theron, with a complaining note in his voice. "It smells up the whole place.  I never dreamed of yoursitting up for me like this.  You ought to have goneto bed.""But how could I guess that you were going to be so late?,"she retorted.  "And you haven't told me where you were. Is this book of yours going to keep you up like thisright along?"The episode of the book was buried in the young minister'smind beneath such a mass of subsequent experiencesthat it required an effort for him to grasp what shewas talking about.  It seemed as if months had elapsedsince he was in earnest about that book; and yet hehad left the house full of it only a few hours before. He shook his wits together, and made answer--"Oh, bless you, no!  Only there arose a very curious question. You have no idea, literally no conception, of theinteresting and important problems which are raisedby the mere fact of Abraham leaving the city of Ur. It's amazing, I assure you.  I hadn't realized it myself.""Well," remarked Alice, rising--and with good-humorand petulance struggling sleepily ill her tone--"all I'vegot to say is, that if Abraham hasn't anything betterto do than to keep young ministers of the gospel out,goodness knows where, till all hours of the night,I wish to gracious he'd stayed in the city of Ur rightstraight along.""You have no idea what a scholarly man Dr. Ledsmar is,"Theron suddenly found himself inspired to volunteer. "He has the most marvellous collection of books--a wholelibrary devoted to this very subject--and he has put themall quite freely at my disposal.  Extremely kind of him,isn't it?""Ledsmar?  Ledsmar?" queried Alice.  "I don't seemto remember the name.  He isn't the little man withthe birthmark, who sits in the pew behind the Lovejoys,is he?  I think some one said he was a doctor.""Yes, a horse doctor!" said Theron, with a sniff. "No; you haven't seen this Dr. Ledsmar at all.  I--I don'tknow that he attends any church regularly.  I scraped hisacquaintance quite by accident.  He is really a character. He lives in the big house, just beyond the race-course,you know--the one with the tower at the back--""No, I don't know.  How should I?  I've hardly pokedmy nose outside of the yard since I have been here.""Well, you shall go," said the husband, consolingly. "You HAVE been cooped up here too much, poor girl.  I musttake you out more, really.  I don't know that I could takeyou to the doctor's place--without an invitation, I mean. He is very queer about some things.  He lives there all alone,for instance, with only a Chinaman for a servant.  He toldme I was almost the only man he had asked under his rooffor years.  He isn't a practising physician at all, you know. He is a scientist; he makes experiments with lizards--and things.""Theron," the wife said, pausing lamp in hand on her wayto the bedroom, "do you be careful, now!  For all you knowthis doctor may be a loose man, or pretty near an infidel. You've got to be mighty particular in such matters, you know,or you'll have the trustees down on you like a 'thousandof bricks.'""I will thank the trustees to mind their own business,"said Theron, stiffly, and the subject dropped.The bedroom window upstairs was open, and upon the freshnight air was borne in the shrill, jangling sound of a piano,being played off somewhere in the distance, but sovehemently that the noise imposed itself upon the silencefar and wide.  Theron listened to this as he undressed. It proceeded from the direction of the main street,and he knew, as by instinct, that it was the Madden girlwho was playing.  The incongruity of the hour escapedhis notice.  He mused instead upon the wild and tropicaltangle of moods, emotions, passions, which had grown up inthat strange temperament.  He found something very patheticin that picture she had drawn of herself in forecast,roaming disconsolate through her rooms the livelong night,unable to sleep.  The woful moan of insomnia seemedto make itself heard in every strain from her piano.Alice heard it also, but being unillumined, she missedthe romantic pathos.  "I call it disgraceful," she mutteredfrom her pillow, "for folks to be banging away on a pianoat this time of night.  There ought to be a law to prevent it.""It may be some distressed soul," said Theron, gently,"seeking relief from the curse of sleeplessness."The wife laughed, almost contemptuously. "Distressed fiddlesticks!" was her only other comment.The music went on for a long time--rising now to stridentheights, now sinking off to the merest tinkling murmur,and broken ever and again by intervals of utter hush. It did not prevent Alice from at once falling sound asleep;but Theron lay awake, it seemed to him, for hours,listening tranquilly, and letting his mind wander at willthrough the pleasant antechambers of Sleep, where are moreunreal fantasies than Dreamland itself affords.PART IICHAPTER XIFor some weeks the Rev. Theron Ware saw nothing of eitherthe priest or the doctor, or the interesting Miss Madden.There were, indeed, more urgent matters to think about. June had come; and every succeeding day brought closer to handthe ordeal of his first Quarterly Conference in Octavius. The waters grew distinctly rougher as his pastoral barkneared this difficult passage.He would have approached the great event with an easiermind if he could have made out just how he stoodwith his congregation.  Unfortunately nothing in hisprevious experiences helped him in the least to measureor guess at the feelings of these curious Octavians. Their Methodism seemed to be sound enough, and to stickquite to the letter of the Discipline, so long as it wasexpressed in formulae.  It was its spirit which he feltto be complicated by all sorts of conditions wholly novel to him.The existence of a line of street-cars in the town,for example, would not impress the casual thinker aslikely to prove a rock in the path of peaceful religion. Theron, in his simplicity, had even thought, when hefirst saw these bobtailed cars bumping along the railsin the middle of the main street, that they must bea great convenience to people living in the outskirts,who wished to get in to church of a Sunday morning. He was imprudent enough to mention this in conversationwith one of his new parishioners.  Then he learned,to his considerable chagrin, that when this line was built,some years before, a bitter war of words had been foughtupon the question of its being worked on the Sabbath day. The then occupant of the Methodist pulpit had so distinguishedhimself above the rest by the solemnity and fervor of hisprotests against this insolent desecration of God's daythat the Methodists of Octavius still felt themselvespeculiarly bound to hold this horse-car line, its management,and everything connected with it, in unbending aversion. At least once a year they were accustomed to expect asermon denouncing it and all its impious Sunday patrons. Theron made a mental resolve that this year they shouldbe disappointed.Another burning problem, which he had not been calledupon before to confront, he found now entangled with themysterious line which divided a circus from a menagerie. Those itinerant tent-shows had never come his way heretofore,and he knew nothing of that fine balancing proportion betweenladies in tights on horseback and cages full of deeplyeducational animals, which, even as the impartial rain,was designed to embrace alike the just and the unjust. There had arisen inside the Methodist society of Octaviussome painful episodes, connected with members who tooktheir children "just to see the animals," and were convictedof having also watched the Rose-Queen of the Arena,in her unequalled flying leap through eight hoops,with an ardent and unashamed eye.  One of these casesstill remained on the censorial docket of the church;and Theron understood that he was expected to name acommittee of five to examine and try it.  This he neglectedto do.He was no longer at all certain that the congregationas a whole liked his sermons.  The truth was, no doubt,that he had learned enough to cease regarding thecongregation as a whole.  He could still rely uponcarrying along with him in his discourses from the pulpita large majority of interested and approving faces. But here, unhappily, was a case where the majority didnot rule.  The minority, relatively small in numbers,was prodigious in virile force.More than twenty years had now elapsed since that minor schismin the Methodist Episcopal Church, the result of which wasthe independent body known as Free Methodists, had relievedthe parent flock of its principal disturbing element. The rupture came fittingly at that time when allthe "isms" of the argumentative fifties were hurledviolently together into the melting-pot of civil war. The great Methodist Church, South, had broken bodily offon the question of State Rights.  The smaller and domesticfraction of Free Methodism separated itself upon an issuewhich may be most readily described as one of civilization. The seceders resented growth in material prosperity;they repudiated the introduction of written sermonsand organ-music; they deplored the increasing laxityin meddlesome piety, the introduction of polite mannersin the pulpit and classroom, and the development of evena rudimentary desire among the younger people of thechurch to be like others outside in dress and speechand deportment.  They did battle as long as they could,inside the fold, to restore it to the severelystraight and narrow path of primitive Methodism. When the adverse odds became too strong for them,they quitted the church and set up a Bethel for themselves.Octavius chanced to be one of the places where they wereable to hold their own within the church organization. The Methodism of the town had gone along without anylocal secession.  It still held in full fellowshipthe radicals who elsewhere had followed their unbridledbent into the strongest emotional vagaries--where excitedbrethren worked themselves up into epileptic fits, and womenwhirled themselves about in weird religious ecstasies,like dervishes of the Orient, till they fell headlongin a state of trance.  Octavian Methodism was sparedextravagances of this sort, it is true, but it paida price for the immunity.  The people whom an open splitwould have taken away remained to leaven and dominatethe whole lump.  This small advanced section, with its menof a type all the more aggressive from its narrowness,and women who went about solemnly in plain gray garments,with tight-fitting, unadorned, mouse-colored sunbonnets,had not been able wholly to enforce its views upon thesocial life of the church members, but of its controllinginfluence upon their official and public actions therecould be no doubt.The situation had begun to unfold itself to Theronfrom the outset.  He had recognized the episodes ofthe forbidden Sunday milk and of the flowers in poorAlice's bonnet as typical of much more that was to come. No week followed without bringing some new fulfilmentof this foreboding.  Now, at the end of two months,he knew well enough that the hitherto dominant minoritywas hostile to him and his ministry, and would do whateverit could against him.Though Theron at once decided to show fight, and didnot at all waver in that resolve, his courage was in themain of a despondent sort.  Sometimes it would flutterup to the point of confidence, or at least hopefulness,when he met with substantial men of the church whoobviously liked him, and whom he found himself mentallyranging on his side, in the struggle which was to come. But more often it was blankly apparent to him that,the moment flags were flying and drums on the roll,these amiable fair-weather friends would probably taketo their heels.Still, such as they were, his sole hope lay in their support. He must make the best of them.  He set himself doggedlyto the task of gathering together all those who werenot his enemies into what, when the proper time came,should be known as the pastor's party.  There was plentyof apostolic warrant for this.  If there had not been,Theron felt that the mere elementary demands of self-defencewould have justified his use of strategy.The institution of pastoral calling, particularly thatinquisitorial form of it laid down in the Discipline,had never attracted Theron.  He and Alice had gone aboutamong their previous flocks in quite a haphazard fashion,without thought of system, much less of deliberate purpose. Theron made lists now, and devoted thought and examinationto the personal tastes and characteristics of the peopleto be cultivated.  There were some, for example, who wouldexpect him to talk pretty much as the Discipline ordained--that is, to ask if they had family prayer, to inquireafter their souls, and generally to minister graceto his hearers--and these in turn subdivided themselvesinto classes, ranging from those who would wish nothingelse to those who needed only a mild spiritual flavor. There were others whom he would please much better by nottalking shop at all.  Although he could ill afford it,he subscribed now for a daily paper that he might havea perpetually renewed source of good conversationaltopics for these more worldly calls.  He also boughtseveral pounds of candy, pleasing in color, but warrantedto be entirely harmless, and he made a large mysteriousmark on the inside of his new silk hat to remind himnot to go out calling without some of this in his pocketfor the children.Alice, he felt, was not helping him in this matteras effectively as he could have wished.  Her attitudetoward the church in Octavius might best be describedby the word "sulky."  Great allowance was to be made,he realized, for her humiliation over the flowersin her bonnet.  That might justify her, fairly enough,in being kept away from meeting now and again by headaches,or undefined megrims.  But it ought not to prevent herfrom going about and making friends among the kindlierparishioners who would welcome such a thing, and whom he fromtime to time indicated to her.  She did go to some extent,it is true, but she produced, in doing so, an effectof performing a duty.  He did not find traces anywhereof her having created a brilliant social impression. When they went out together, he was peculiarly consciousof having to do the work unaided.This was not at all like the Alice of former years,of other charges.  Why, she had been, beyond comparison,the most popular young woman in Tyre.  What possessed herto mope like this in Octavius?Theron looked at her attentively nowadays, when she wasunaware of his gaze, to try if her face offered any answerto the riddle.  It could not be suggested that she was ill. Never in her life had she been looking so well.  She hadthrown herself, all at once, and with what was to himan unaccountable energy, into the creation and managementof a flower-garden. She was out the better part ofevery day, rain or shine, digging, transplanting, pruning,pottering generally about among her plants and shrubs. This work in the open air had given her an aspect of physicalwell-being which it was impossible to be mistaken about.Her husband was glad, of course, that she had found someoccupation which at once pleased her and so obviouslyconduced to health.  This was so much a matter of course,in fact, that he said to himself over and over againthat he was glad.  Only--only, sometimes the thought WOULDforce itself upon his attention that if she did not spendso much of her time in her own garden, she would have moretime to devote to winning friends for them in the Gardenof the Lord--friends whom they were going to need badly.The young minister, in taking anxious stock of the chancesfor and against him, turned over often in his mind thefact that he had already won rank as a pulpit orator. His sermons had attracted almost universal attentionat Tyre, and his achievement before the Conferenceat Tecumseh, if it did fail to receive practical reward,had admittedly distanced all the other preaching there. It was a part of the evil luck pursuing him that herein this perversely enigmatic Octavius his special giftseemed to be of no use whatever.  There were times,indeed, when he was tempted to think that bad preachingwas what Octavius wanted.Somewhere he had heard of a Presbyterian minister, in chargeof a big city church, who managed to keep well in with awatchfully Orthodox congregation, and at the same timeestablish himself in the affections of the community at large,by simply preaching two kinds of sermons.  In the morning,when almost all who attended were his own communicants,he gave them very cautious and edifying doctrinal discourses,treading loyally in the path of the Westminster Confession. To the evening assemblages, made up for the larger partof outsiders, he addressed broadly liberal sermons,literary in form, and full of respectful allusionsto modern science and the philosophy of the day. Thus he filled the church at both services, and put moneyin its treasury and his own fame before the world. There was of course the obvious danger that the piouselders who in the forenoon heard infant damnationvigorously proclaimed, would revolt when they heardafter supper that there was some doubt about even adultsbeing damned at all.  But either because the same peopledid not attend both services, or because the minister'sperfect regularity in the morning was each week regardedas a retraction of his latest vagaries of an evening,no trouble ever came.Theron had somewhat tentatively tried this on in Octavius. It was no good.  His parishioners were of the sort whowould have come to church eight times a day on Sunday,instead of two, if occasion offered.  The hope that evena portion of them would stop away, and that their placeswould be taken in the evening by less prejudiced strangerswho wished for intellectual rather than theological food,fell by the wayside.  The yearned-for strangers didnot come; the familiar faces of the morning serviceall turned up in their accustomed places every evening. They were faces which confused and disheartened Theronin the daytime.  Under the gaslight they seemed even harderand more unsympathetic.  He timorously experimented withthem for an evening or two, then abandoned the effort.Once there had seemed the beginning of a chance.  The richestbanker in Octavius--a fat, sensual, hog-faced old bachelor--surprised everybody one evening by entering the churchand taking a seat.  Theron happened to know who he was;even if he had not known, the suppressed excitementvisible in the congregation, the way the sisters turnedround to look, the way the more important brethren puttheir heads together and exchanged furtive whispers--would have warned him that big game was in view. He recalled afterward with something like self-disgustthe eager, almost tremulous pains he himself tookto please this banker.  There was a part of the sermon,as it had been written out, which might easily giveoffence to a single man of wealth and free notionsof life.  With the alertness of a mental gymnast,Theron ran ahead, excised this portion, and had readywhen the gap was reached some very pretty general remarks,all the more effective and eloquent, he felt, for havingbeen extemporized.  People said it was a good sermon;and after the benediction and dispersion some of theofficials and principal pew-holders remained to talkover the likelihood of a capture having been effected. Theron did not get away without having this mentionedto him, and he was conscious of sharing deeply the hopeof the brethren--with the added reflection that it wouldbe a personal triumph for himself into the bargain. He was ashamed of this feeling a little later, and of histrick with the sermon.  But this chastening product ofintrospection was all the fruit which the incident bore. The banker never came again.Theron returned one afternoon, a little earlier than usual,from a group of pastoral calls.  Alice, who was plucking weedsin a border at the shady side of the house, heard his step,and rose from her labors.  He was walking slowly,and seemed weary.  He took off his high hat, as he saw her,and wiped his brow.  The broiling June sun was stillhigh overhead.  Doubtless it was its insufferable heatwhich was accountable for the worn lines in his faceand the spiritless air which the wife's eye detected. She went to the gate, and kissed him as he entered."I believe if I were you," she said, "I'd carry an umbrellasuch scorching days as this.  Nobody'd think anything of it. I don't see why a minister shouldn't carry one as muchas a woman carries a parasol."Theron gave her a rueful, meditative sort of smile. "I suppose people really do think of us as a kindof hybrid female," he remarked.  Then, holding his hatin his hand, he drew a long breath of relief at findinghimself in the shade, and looked about him."Why, you've got more posies here, on this one sideof the house alone, than mother had in her whole yard,"he said, after a little.  "Let's see--I know that one: that's columbine, isn't it?  And that's London pride,and that's ragged robin.  I don't know any of the others."Alice recited various unfamiliar names, as she pointedout the several plants which bore them, and he listenedwith a kindly semblance of interest.They strolled thus to the rear of the house, where thickclumps of fragrant pinks lined both sides of the path. She picked some of these for him, and gave him more nameswith which to label the considerable number of other plantshe saw about him."I had no idea we were so well provided as all this,"he commented at last.  "Those Van Sizers must have beentremendous hands for flowers.  You were lucky in followingsuch people.""Van Sizers!" echoed Alice, with contempt.  "All theyleft was old tomato cans and clamshells.  Why, I've putin every blessed one of these myself, all exceptthose peonies, there, and one brier on the side wall.""Good for you!" exclaimed Theron, approvingly.  Then itoccurred to him to ask, "But where did you get them all? Around among our friends?""Some few," responded Alice, with a note of hesitationin her voice.  "Sister Bult gave me the verbenas, there,and the white pinks were a present from Miss Stevens. But most of them Levi Gorringe was good enough to send me--from his garden.""I didn't know that Gorringe had a garden," said Theron. "I thought he lived over his law-office, in the brickblock, there.""Well, I don't know that it's exactly HIS," explained Alice;"but it's a big garden somewhere outside, where he canhave anything he likes."  She went on with a little laugh: "I didn't like to question him too closely, for fear he'dthink I was looking a gift horse in the mouth--or elsehinting for more.  It was quite his own offer, you know. He picked them all out for me, and brought them here,and lent me a book telling me just what to do with each one. And in a few days, now, I am to have another big batchof plants--dahlias and zinnias and asters and so on;I'm almost ashamed to take them.  But it's such a changeto find some one in this Octavius who isn't all self!""Yes, Gorringe is a good fellow," said Theron.  "I wish hewas a professing member."  Then some new thought struck him. "Alice," he exclaimed, "I believe I'll go and see himthis very afternoon.  I don't know why it hasn't occurredto me before:  he's just the man whose advice I need most. He knows these people here; he can tell me what to do.""Aren't you too tired now?" suggested Alice, as Theronput on his hat."No, the sooner the better," he replied, moving now towardthe gate."Well," she began, "if I were you, I wouldn't say toomuch about--that is, I--but never mind.""What is it?" asked her husband."Nothing whatever," replied Alice, positively.  "It wasonly some nonsense of mine;" and Theron, placidly acceptingthe feminine whim, went off down the street again.CHAPTER XIIThe Rev. Mr. Ware found Levi Gorringe's law-officereadily enough, but its owner was not in.  He probablywould be back again, though, in a quarter of an hour or so,the boy said, and the minister at once decided to wait.Theron was interested in finding that this office-boy was noother than Harvey--the lad who brought milk to the parsonageevery morning.  He remembered now that he had heard goodthings of this urchin, as to the hard work he did to helphis mother, the Widow Semple, in her struggle to keepa roof over her head; and also bad things, in that he didnot come regularly either to church or Sunday-school. Theclergyman recalled, too, that Harvey had impressed him as a character."Well, sonny, are you going to be a lawyer?" he asked,as he seated himself by the window, and looked about him,first at the dusty litter of old papers, pamphlets,and tape-bound documents in bundles which crowdedthe stuffy chamber, and then at the boy himself.Harvey was busy at a big box--a rough pine dry-goodsbox which bore the flaring label of an express company,and also of a well-known seed firm in a Western city,and which the boy had apparently just opened.  He waslifting from it, and placing on the table after he hadshaken off the sawdust and moss in which they were packed,small parcels of what looked in the fading light to behalf-dried plants."Well, I don't know--I rather guess not," he made answer,as he pursued his task.  "So far as I can make out,this wouldn't be the place to start in at, if I WAS goingto be a lawyer.  A boy can learn here first-rate how toload cartridges and clean a gun, and braid trout-flies onto leaders, but I don't see much law laying around loose. Anyway," he went on, "I couldn't afford to read law,and not be getting any wages.  I have to earn money,you know."Theron felt that he liked the boy.  "Yes," he said,with a kindly tone; "I've heard that you are a good,industrious youngster.  I daresay Mr. Gorringe willsee to it that you get a chance to read law, and getwages too.""Oh, I can read all there is here and welcome,"the boy explained, stepping toward the window to decipherthe label on a bundle of roots in his hand, "but that's nogood unless there's regular practice coming into the officeall the while.  THAT'S how you learn to be a lawyer. But Gorringe don't have what I call a practice at all. He just sees men in the other room there, with the door shut,and whatever there is to do he does it all himself."The minister remembered a stray hint somewhere thatMr. Gorringe was a money-lender--what was colloquiallycalled a "note-shaver." To his rustic sense, there wassomething not quite nice about that occupation. It would be indecorous, he felt, to encourage furthertalk about it from the boy."What are you doing there?" he inquired, to changethe subject."Sorting out some plants," replied Harvey.  "I don't knowwhat's got into Gorringe lately.  This is the third bigbox he's had since I've been here--that is, in six weeks--besides two baskets full of rose-bushes. I don't know what hedoes with them.  He carries them off himself somewhere. I've had kind of half a notion that he's figurin'on getting married.  I can't think of anything else thatwould make a man spend money like water--just for flowersand bushes.  They do get foolish, you know, when they'vegot marriage on the brain."Theron found himself only imperfectly followingthe theories of the young philosopher. It was his fact that monopolized the minister's attention."But as I understand it," he remarked hesitatingly,"Brother Gorringe--or rather Mr. Gorringe--gets all theplants he wants, everything he likes, from a big gardensomewhere outside.  I don't know that it is exactly his;but I remember hearing something to that effect."The boy slapped the last litter off his hands, and, as hecame to the window, shook his head.  "These don't comefrom no garden outside," he declared.  "They come fromthe dealers', and he pays solid cash for 'em.  The invoicefor this lot alone was thirty-one dollars and sixty cents. There it is on the table.  You can see it for yourself"Mr. Ware did not offer to look.  "Very likely theseare for the garden I was speaking of," he said. "Of course you can't go on taking plants out of a gardenindefinitely without putting others in.""I don't know anything about any garden that he takesplants out of," answered Harvey, and looked meditativelyfor a minute or two out upon the street below.  Then heturned to the minister.  "Your wife's doing a good dealof gardening this spring, I notice," he said casually. "You'd hardly think it was the same place, she's fixed itup so.  If she wants any extra hoeing done, I can alwaysget off Saturday afternoons.""I will remember," said Theron.  He also lookedout of the window; and nothing more was said until,a few moments later, Mr. Gorringe himself came in.The lawyer seemed both surprised and pleased at discoveringthe identity of his visitor, with whom he shook handsin almost an excess of cordiality.  He spread a largenewspaper over the pile of seedling plants on the table,pushed the packing-box under the table with his foot,and said almost peremptorily to the boy, "You can go now!" Then he turned again to Theron."Well, Mr. Ware, I'm glad to see you," he repeated,and drew up a chair by the window.  Things are going allright with you, I hope."Theron noted again the waving black hair, the dark skin,and the carefully trimmed mustache and chin-tuft whichgave the lawyer's face a combined effect of romanceand smartness.  No; it was the eyes, cool, shrewd,dark-gray eyes, which suggested this latter quality. The recollection of having seen one of them wink,in deliberate hostility of sarcasm, when those othertrustees had their backs turned, came mercifullyat the moment to recall the young minister to his errand."I thought I would drop in and have a chat with you,"he said, getting better under way as he went on. "Quarterly Conference is only a fortnight off, and I am agood deal at sea about what is going to happen.""I'm not a church member, you know," interposed Gorringe. "That shuts me out of the Quarterly Conference.""Alas, yes!" said Theron.  "I wish it didn't. I'm afraidI'm not going to have any friends to spare there.""What are you afraid of?" asked the lawyer, seeming nowto be wholly at his ease again "They can't eat you.""No, they keep me too lean for that," responded Theron,with a pensive smile.  "I WAS going to ask, you know,for an increase of salary, or an extra allowance. I don't see how I can go on as it is.  The sum fixed bythe last Quarterly Conference of the old year, and which Iam getting now, is one hundred dollars less than mypredecessor had.  That isn't fair, and it isn't right. But so far from its looking as if I could get an increase,the prospect seems rather that they will make me payfor the gas and that sidewalk.  I never recovered morethan about half of my moving expenses, as you know,and--and, frankly, I don't know which way to turn. It keeps me miserable all the while.""That's where you're wrong," said Mr. Gorringe.  "If youlet things like that worry you, you'll keep a sore skinall your life.  You take my advice and just go aheadyour own gait, and let other folks do the worrying. They ARE pretty close-fisted here, for a fact, but youcan manage to rub along somehow.  If you should getinto any real difficulties, why, I guess--" the lawyerpaused to smile in a hesitating, significant way--"Iguess some road out can be found all right.  The mainthing is, don't fret, and don't allow your wife to--to fret either."He stopped abruptly.  Theron nodded in recognition of hisamiable tone, and the found the nod lengthening itselfout into almost a bow as the thought spread through hismind that this had been nothing more nor less than apromise to help him with money if worst came to worst. He looked at Levi Gorringe, and said to himself that theintuition of women was wonderful.  Alice had picked himout as a friend of theirs merely by seeing him pass the house."Yes," he said; "I am specially anxious to keep my wifefrom worrying.  She was surrounded in her girlhood by agood deal of what, relatively, we should call luxury,and that makes it all the harder for her to be a poorminister's wife.  I had quite decided to get her ahired girl, come what might, but she thinks she'd ratherget on without one.  Her health is better, I must admit,than it was when we came here.  She works out in hergarden a great deal, and that seems to agree with her.""Octavius is a healthy place--that's generally admitted,"replied the lawyer, with indifference.  He seemednot to be interested in Mrs. Ware's health, but lookedintently out through the window at the buildings opposite,and drummed with his fingers on the arms of his chair.Theron made haste to revert to his errand.  "Of course,your not being in the Quarterly Conference," he said,"renders certain things impossible.  But I didn't knowbut you might have some knowledge of how matters are going,what plans the officials of the church had; they seem tohave agreed to tell me nothing.""Well, I HAVE heard this much," responded Gorringe. "They're figuring on getting the Soulsbys here to raisethe debt and kind o' shake things up generally. I guess that's about as good as settled.  Hadn't you heardof it?""Not a breath!" exclaimed Theron, mournfully.  "Well," headded upon reflection, "I'm sorry, downright sorry. The debt-raiser seems to me about the lowest-down thingwe produce.  I've heard of those Soulsbys; I think I saw HIMindeed once at Conference, but I believe SHE is the headof the firm.""Yes; she wears the breeches, I understand,"said Gorringe sententiously."I HAD hoped," the young minister began with a rueful sigh,"in fact, I felt quite confident at the outset that Icould pay off this debt, and put the church generally ona new footing, by giving extra attention to my pulpit work. It is hardly for me to say it, but in other places where Ihave been, my preaching has been rather--rather a featurein the town itself I have always been accustomed to attractto our services a good many non-members, and that,as you know, helps tremendously from a money point of view. But somehow that has failed here.  I doubt if the averagecongregations are a whit larger now than they were when Icame in April.  I know the collections are not.""No," commented the lawyer, slowly; "you'll never doanything in that line in Octavius.  You might, of course,if you were to stay here and work hard at it for fiveor six years--""Heaven forbid!" groaned Mr. Ware."Quite so," put in the other.  "The point is thatthe Methodists here are a little set by themselves. I don't know that they like one another specially,but I do know that they are not what you might callpopular with people outside.  Now, a new preacherat the Presbyterian church, or even the Baptist--he might have a chance to create talk, and make a stir. But Methodist--no!  People who don't belong won't come nearthe Methodist church here so long as there's any otherplace with a roof on it to go to.  Give a dog a bad name,you know.  Well, the Methodists here have got a bad name;and if you could preach like Henry Ward Beecher himself youwouldn't change it, or get folks to come and hear you.""I see what you mean," Theron responded.  "I'm notparticularly surprised myself that Octavius doesn'tlove us, or look to us for intellectual stimulation. I myself leave that pulpit more often than otherwisefeeling like a wet rag--utterly limp and discouraged. But, if you don't mind my speaking of it, YOU don't belong,and yet YOU come."It was evident that the lawyer did not mind.  He spokefreely in reply.  "Oh, yes, I've got into the habit of it. I began going when I first came here, and--and so it grewto be natural for me to go.  Then, of course, being theonly lawyer you have, a considerable amount of my businessis mixed up in one way or another with your membership;you see those are really the things which settle a manin a rut, and keep him there.""I suppose your people were Methodists," said Theron,to fill in the pause, "and that is how you originallystarted with us."Levi Gorringe shook his head.  He leaned back, half closedhis eyes, put his finger-tips together, and almost smiledas if something in retrospect pleased and moved him."No," he said; "I went to the church first to see a girlwho used to go there.  It was long before your time. All her family moved away years ago.  You wouldn't know anyof them.  I was younger then, and I didn't know as much as Ido now.  I worshipped the very ground that girl walked on,and like a fool I never gave her so much as a hint of it. Looking back now, I can see that I might have had her if I'dasked her.  But I went instead and sat around and lookedat her at church and Sunday-school and prayer-meetingsThursday nights, and class-meetings after the sermon. She was devoted to religion and church work; and, thinking itwould please her, I joined the church on probation. Men can fool themselves easier than they can other people. I actually believed at the time that I had experienced religion. I felt myself full of all sorts of awakenings of the souland so forth.  But it was really that girl.  You see I'mtelling you the thing just as it was.  I was very happy. I think it was the happiest time of my life.  I rememberthere was a love-feast while I was on probation; and I satdown in front, right beside her, and we ate the littlesquare chunks of bread and drank the water together, and Iheld one corner of her hymn-book when we stood up and sang. That was the nearest I ever got to her, or to full membershipin the church.  That very next week, I think it was,we learned that she had got engaged to the minister's son--a young man who had just become a minister himself. They got married, and went away--and I--somehow I never tookup my membership when the six months' probation was over. That's how it was.""It is very interesting," remarked Theron, softly, after alittle silence--"and very full of human nature.""Well, now you see," said the lawyer, "what I mean when Isay that there hasn't been another minister here since,that I should have felt like telling this story to. They wouldn't have understood it at all.  They wouldhave thought it was blasphemy for me to say straightout that what I took for experiencing religion was reallya girl.  But you are different.  I felt that at once,the first time I saw you.  In a pulpit or out of it,what I like in a human being is that he SHOULD be human.""It pleases me beyond measure that you should like me, then"returned the young minister, with frank gratificationshining on his face.  "The world is made all the sweeterand more lovable by these--these elements of romance. I am not one of those who would wish to see them banishedor frowned upon.  I don't mind admitting to you thatthere is a good deal in Methodism--I mean the strictpractice of its letter which you find here in Octavius--that is personally distasteful to me.  I read the other dayof an English bishop who said boldly, publicly, that nomodern nation could practise the principles laid downin the Sermon on the Mount and survive for twenty-four hours.""Ha, ha!  That's good!" laughed the lawyer."I felt that it was good, too," pursued Theron.  "I am gettingto see a great many things differently, here in Octavius. Our Methodist Discipline is like the Beatitudes--very helpfuland beautiful, if treated as spiritual suggestion, but moreor less of a stumbling-block if insisted upon literally. I declare!" he added, sitting up in his chair, "I nevertalked like this to a living soul before in all my life. Your confidences were contagious."The Rev. Mr. Ware rose as he spoke, and took up his hat."Must you be going?" asked the lawyer, also rising. "Well, I'm glad I haven't shocked you.  Come in oftenerwhen you are passing.  And if you see anything I can helpyou in, always tell me."The two men shook hands, with an emphatic and lingering clasp."I am glad," said Theron, "that you didn't stop comingto church just because you lost the girl."Levi Gorringe answered the minister's pleasantrywith a smile which curled his mustache upward,and expanded in little wrinkles at the ends of his eyes. "No," he said jestingly.  "I'm death on collecting debts;and I reckon that the church still owes me a girl. I'll have one yet."So, with merriment the echoes of which pleasantlyaccompanied Theron down the stairway, the two men parted.CHAPTER XIIIThough time lagged in passing with a slowness which seemedborn of studied insolence, there did arrive at last a daywhich had something definitive about it to Theron'sdisturbed and restless mind.  It was a Thursday, and theprayer-meeting to be held that evening would be the lastbefore the Quarterly Conference, now only four days off.For some reason, the young minister found himself dwellingupon this fact, and investing it with importance. But yesterday the Quarterly Conference had seemed a longway ahead.  Today brought it alarmingly close to hand. He had not heretofore regarded the weekly assemblagefor prayer and song as a thing calling for preparation,or for any preliminary thought.  Now on this Thursdaymorning he went to his desk after breakfast, which wasa sign that he wanted the room to himself, quite asif he had the task of a weighty sermon before him. He sat at the desk all the forenoon, doing no writing,it is true, but remembering every once in a while,when his mind turned aside from the book in his hands,that there was that prayer-meeting in the evening.Sometimes he reached the point of vaguely wondering whythis strictly commonplace affair should be forcing itselfthus upon his attention.  Then, with a kind of mentalshiver at the recollection that this was Thursday,and that the great struggle came on Monday, he would goback to his book.There were a half-dozen volumes on the open desk before him. He had taken them out from beneath a pile of old"Sunday-School Advocates" and church magazines, where theyhad lain hidden from Alice's view most of the week. If there had been a locked drawer in the house, he wouldhave used it instead to hold these books, which had cometo him in a neat parcel, which also contained an amiablenote from Dr. Ledsmar, recalling a pleasant evening in May,and expressing the hope that the accompanying works wouldbe of some service.  Theron had glanced at the backs of theuppermost two, and discovered that their author was Renan. Then he had hastily put the lot in the best place hecould think of to escape his wife's observation.He realized now that there had been no need for this secrecy. Of the other four books, by Sayce, Budge, Smith, and Lenormant,three indeed revealed themselves to be published underreligious auspices.  As for Renan, he might have knownthat the name would be meaningless to Alice.  The feelingthat he himself was not much wiser in this matter than hiswife may have led him to pass over the learned text-bookson Chaldean antiquity, and even the volume of Renanwhich appeared to be devoted to Oriental inscriptions,and take up his other book, entitled in the translation,"Recollections of my Youth."  This he rather glanced through,at the outset, following with a certain inattentionthe introductory sketches and essays, which dealt withan unfamiliar, and, to his notion, somewhat preposterousBreton racial type.  Then, little by little, it dawnedupon him that there was a connected story in all this;and suddenly he came upon it, out in the open, as it were. It was the story of how a deeply devout young man,trained from his earliest boyhood for the sacred office,and desiring passionately nothing but to be worthy of it,came to a point where, at infinite cost of pain to himselfand of anguish to those dearest to him, he had to declarethat he could no longer believe at all in revealed religion.Theron Ware read this all with an excited interestwhich no book had ever stirred in him before.  Much ofit he read over and over again, to make sure that hepenetrated everywhere the husk of French habits of thoughtand Catholic methods in which the kernel was wrapped. He broke off midway in this part of the book to go outto the kitchen to dinner, and began the meal in silence. To Alice's questions he replied briefly that he was preparinghimself for the evening's prayer-meeting. She liftedher brows in such frank surprise at this that he madea further and somewhat rambling explanation about havingagain taken up the work on his book--the book about Abraham."I thought you said you'd given that up altogether,"she remarked."Well," he said, "I WAS discouraged about it for a while. But a man never does anything big without gettingdiscouraged over and over again while he's doing it. I don't say now that I shall write precisely THAT book--I'm merely reading scientific works about the period,just now--but if not that, I shall write some other book. Else how will you get that piano?" he added, with an attempt ata smile."I thought you had given that up, too!" she replied ruefully. Then before he could speak, she went on:  "Never mindthe piano; that can wait.  What I've got on my mindjust now isn't piano; it's potatoes.  Do you know,I saw some the other day at Rasbach's, splendid potatoes--these are some of them--and fifteen cents a bushel cheaperthan those dried-up old things Brother Barnum keeps,and so I bought two bushels.  And Sister Barnum met meon the street this morning, and threw it in my face thatthe Discipline commands us to trade with each other. Is there any such command?""Yes," said the husband.  "It's Section 33. Don't you remember?  I looked it up in Tyre.  We areto 'evidence our desire of salvation by doing good,especially to them that are of the household of faith,or groaning so to be; by employing them preferably to others;buying one of another; helping each other in business'--and so on.  Yes, it's all there.""Well, I told her I didn't believe it was," put in Alice,"and I said that even if it was, there ought to beanother section about selling potatoes to their ministerfor more than they're worth--potatoes that turn all greenwhen you boil them, too.  I believe I'll read up that oldDiscipline myself, and see if it hasn't got some thingsthat I can talk back with.""The very section before that, Number 32, enjoins membersagainst 'uncharitable or unprofitable conversation--particularly speaking evil of magistrates or ministers.' You'd have 'em there, I think."  Theron had beguncheerfully enough, but the careworn, preoccupied lookreturned now to his face.  "I'm sorry if we've fallen outwith the Barnums," he said.  "His brother-in-law, Davis,the Sunday-school superintendent, is a member of theQuarterly Conference, you know, and I've been hopingthat he was on my side.  I've been taking a good dealof pains to make up to him."He ended with a sigh, the pathos of which impressed Alice. "If you think it will do any good," she volunteered,"I'll go and call on the Davises this very afternoon. I'm sure to find her at home,--she's tied hand and footwith that brood of hers--and you'd better give me some ofthat candy for them."Theron nodded his approval and thanks, and relapsedinto silence.  When the meal was over, he broughtout the confectionery to his wife, and without a wordwent back to that remarkable book.When Alice returned toward the close of day, to preparethe simple tea which was always laid a half-hour earlieron Thursdays and Sundays, she found her husband where shehad left him, still busy with those new scientific works. She recounted to him some incidents of her call uponMrs. Davis, as she took off her hat and put on the bigkitchen apron--how pleased Mrs. Davis seemed to be;how her affection for her sister-in-law, the grocer's wife,disclosed itself to be not even skin-deep; how the childrenleaped upon the candy as if they had never seen any before;and how, in her belief, Mr. Davis would be heart and soul onTheron's side at the Conference.To her surprise, the young minister seemed not atall interested.  He hardly looked at her duringher narrative, but reclined in the easy-chair with hishead thrown back, and an abstracted gaze wanderingaimlessly about the ceiling.  When she avowed her faithin the Sunday-school superintendent's loyal partisanship,which she did with a pardonable pride in having helpedto make it secure, her husband even closed his eyes,and moved his head with a gesture which plainly bespoke indifference."I expected you'd be tickled to death," she remarked,with evident disappointment."I've a bad headache," he explained, after a minute's pause."No wonder!"  Alice rejoined, sympathetically enough,but with a note of reproof as well.  "What can you expect,staying cooped up in here all day long, poring overthose books?  People are all the while remarkingthat you study too much.  I tell them, of course,that you're a great hand for reading, and always were;but I think myself it would be better if you got out more,and took more exercise, and saw people.  You know lotsand slathers more than THEY do now, or ever will, if younever opened another book."Theron regarded her with an expression which she had neverseen on his face before.  "You don't realize what youare saying," he replied slowly.  He sighed as he added,with increased gravity, "I am the most ignorant man alive!"Alice began a little laugh of wifely incredulity, and thenlet it die away as she recognized that he was reallytroubled and sad in his mind.  She bent over to kiss himlightly on the brow, and tiptoed her way out into the kitchen."I believe I will let you make my excuses at the prayer-meetingthis evening," he said all at once, as the supper cameto an end.  He had eaten next to nothing during the meal,and had sat in a sort of brown-study from which Alicekindly forbore to arouse him.  "I don't know--I hardlyfeel equal to it.  They won't take it amiss--for once--if you explain to them that I--I am not at all well.""Oh, I do hope you're not coming down with anything!" Alice had risen too, and was gazing at him with a solicitudethe tenderness of which at once comforted, and in someobscure way jarred on his nerves.  "Is there anything Ican do--or shall I go for a doctor?  We've got mustardin the house, and senna--I think there's some senna left--and Jamaica ginger."Theron shook his head wearily at her.  "Oh, no,--no!"he expostulated.  "It isn't anything that needs drugs,or doctors either.  It's just mental worry and fatigue,that's all.  An evening's quiet rest in the big chair,and early to bed--that will fix me up all right.""But you'll read; and that will make your head worse,"said Alice."No, I won't read any more," he promised her, walking slowlyinto the sitting-room, and settling himself in the big chair,the while she brought out a pillow from the adjoiningbest bedroom, and adjusted it behind his head.  "That's nice! I'll just lie quiet here, and perhaps doze a littletill you come back.  I feel in the mood for the rest;it will do me all sorts of good."He closed his eyes; and Alice, regarding his upturnedface anxiously, decided that already it looked more atpeace than awhile ago."Well, I hope you'll be better when I get back," she said,as she began preparations for the evening service. These consisted in combing stiffly back the strands oflight-brown hair which, during the day, had exuberantlyloosened themselves over her temples into somethingalmost like curls; in fastening down upon this rebellioushair a plain brown-straw bonnet, guiltless of allornament save a binding ribbon of dull umber hue;and in putting on a thin dark-gray shawl and a pairof equally subdued lisle-thread gloves.  Thus attired,she made a mischievous little grimace of dislike at herpuritanical image in the looking-glass over the mantel,and then turned to announce her departure."Well, I'm off," she said.  Theron opened his eyes to takein this figure of his wife dressed for prayer-meeting,and then closed them again abruptly.  "All right,"he murmured, and then he heard the door shut behind her.Although he had been alone all day, there seemed to bequite a unique value and quality in this present solitude. He stretched out his legs on the opposite chair,and looked lazily about him, with the feeling that atlast he had secured some leisure, and could thinkundisturbed to his heart's content.  There were nearlytwo hours of unbroken quiet before him; and the merefact of his having stepped aside from the routine ofhis duty to procure it; marked it in his thoughts as aspecial occasion, which ought in the nature of thingsto yield more than the ordinary harvest of mental profit.Theron's musings were broken in upon from time to timeby rumbling outbursts of hymn-singing from the churchnext door.  Surely, he said to himself, there could be noother congregation in the Conference, or in all Methodism,which sang so badly as these Octavians did.  The noise,as it came to him now and again, divided itself familiarlyinto a main strain of hard, high, sharp, and tinnyfemale voices, with three or four concurrent and clashingbranch strains of part-singing by men who did not know how. How well he already knew these voices!  Through two woodenwalls he could detect the conceited and pushing note ofBrother Lovejoy, who tried always to drown the rest out,and the lifeless, unmeasured weight of shrill clamorwhich Sister Barnum hurled into every chorus, half closingher eyes and sticking out her chin as she did so. They drawled their hymns too, these people, till Theronthought he understood that injunction in the Disciplineagainst singing too slowly.  It had puzzled him heretofore;now he felt that it must have been meant in prophecyfor Octavius.It was impossible not to recall in contrast that otherchurch music he had heard, a month before, and thewhole atmosphere of that other pastoral sitting room,from which he had listened to it.  The startled and crowdedimpressions of that strange evening had been lying hiddenin his mind all this while, driven into a corner by thepressure of more ordinary, everyday matters.  They cameforth now, and passed across his brain--no longer confusingand distorted, but in orderly and intelligible sequence. Their earlier effect had been one of frightened fascination. Now he looked them over calmly as they lifted themselves,one by one, and found himself not shrinking at all,or evading anything, but dwelling upon each in turnas a natural and welcome part of the most importantexperience of his life.The young minister had arrived, all at once, at this conclusion. He did not question at all the means by which he hadreached it.  Nothing was clearer to his mind than theconclusion itself--that his meeting, with the priestand the doctor was the turning-point in his career. They had lifted him bodily out of the slough of ignorance,of contact with low minds and sordid, narrow things,and put him on solid ground.  This book he had been reading--this gentle, tender, lovable book, which had as much truepiety in it as any devotional book he had ever read,and yet, unlike all devotional books, put its foot firmlyupon everything which could not be proved in human reasonto be true--must be merely one of a thousand which menlike Father Forbes and Dr. Ledsmar knew by heart. The very thought that he was on the way now to know them,too, made Theron tremble.  The prospect wooed him,and he thrilled in response, with the wistful and delicateeagerness of a young lover.Somehow, the fact that the priest and the doctor were notreligious men, and that this book which had so impressedand stirred him was nothing more than Renan's recitalof how he, too, ceased to be a religious man, did nottake a form which Theron could look square in the face. It wore the shape, instead, of a vague premise that therewere a great many different kinds of religions--the pastand dead races had multiplied these in their time literallyinto thousands--and that each no doubt had its centralsupport of truth somewhere for the good men who were in it,and that to call one of these divine and condemn allthe others was a part fit only for untutored bigots. Renan had formally repudiated Catholicism, yet could writein his old age with the deepest filial affection of theMother Church he had quitted.  Father Forbes could talkcoolly about the "Christ-myth" without even ceasing to bea priest, and apparently a very active and devoted priest. Evidently there was an intellectual world, a world of cultureand grace, of lofty thoughts and the inspiring communionof real knowledge, where creeds were not of importance,and where men asked one another, not "Is your soul saved?"but "Is your mind well furnished?"  Theron had the sensationof having been invited to become a citizen of this world. The thought so dazzled him that his impulses weredragging him forward to take the new oath of allegiancebefore he had had time to reflect upon what it was hewas abandoning.The droning of the Doxology from the church outside stirredTheron suddenly out of his revery.  It had grown quite dark,and he rose and lit the gas.  "Blest be the Tie that Binds,"they were singing.  He paused, with hand still in air,to listen.  That well-worn phrase arrested his attention,and gave itself a new meaning.  He was bound to those people,it was true, but he could never again harbor the delusionthat the tie between them was blessed.  There was vaguelypresent in his mind the consciousness that other tieswere loosening as well.  Be that as it might, one thingwas certain.  He had passed definitely beyond pretendingto himself that there was anything spiritually in commonbetween him and the Methodist Church of Octavius. The necessity of his keeping up the pretence with othersrose on the instant like a looming shadow before hismental vision.  He turned away from it, and bent his brainto think of something else.The noise of Alice opening the front door came as apleasant digression.  A second later it became clearfrom the sound of voices that she had brought some oneback with her, and Theron hastily stretched himself outagain in the armchair, with his head back in the pillow,and his feet on the other chair.  He had come mightynear forgetting that he was an invalid, and he protectedhimself the further now by assuming an air of lassitudeverging upon prostration."Yes; there's a light burning.  It's all right," he heardAlice say.  She entered the room, and Theron's head was toobad to permit him to turn it, and see who her companion was."Theron dear," Alice began, "I knew you'd be glad to see HER,even if you were out of sorts; and I persuaded her just to runin for a minute.  Let me introduce you to Sister Soulsby. Sister Soulsby--my husband."The Rev. Mr. Ware sat upright with an energetic start,and fastened upon the stranger a look which conveyed anythingbut the satisfaction his wife had been so sure about. It was at the first blush an undisguised scowl, and onlysome fleeting memory of that reflection about needingnow to dissemble, prevented him from still frowning as herose to his feet, and perfunctorily held out his hand."Delighted, I'm sure," he mumbled.  Then, looking up,he discovered that Sister Soulsby knew he was not delighted,and that she seemed not to mind in the least."As your good lady said, I just ran in for a moment,"she remarked, shaking his limp hand with a brisk,business-like grasp, and dropping it.  "I hate botheringsick people, but as we're to be thrown together a gooddeal this next week or so, I thought I'd like to loseno time in saying 'howdy.'  I won't keep you up now. Your wife has been sweet enough to ask me to move my trunkover here in the morning, so that you'll see enough of meand to spare."Theron looked falteringly into her face, as he strovefor words which should sufficiently mask the disgustthis intelligence stirred within him.  A debt-raiserin the town was bad enough!  A debt-raiser quarteredin the very parsonage!--he ground his teeth to think of it.Alice read his hesitation aright.  "Sister Soulsbywent to the hotel," she hastily put in; "and LorenPierce was after her to come and stay at his house,and I ventured to tell her that I thought we couldmake her more comfortable here."  She accompanied thisby so daring a grimace and nod that her husband wokeup to the fact that a point in Conference politics was involved.He squeezed a doubtful smile upon his features.  "We shallboth do our best," he said.  It was not easy, but heforced increasing amiability into his glance and tone. "Is Brother Soulsby here, too?" he asked.The debt-raiser shook her head--again the prompt,decisive movement, so like a busy man of affairs. "No," she answered.  "He's doing supply down on the Hudsonthis week, but he'll be here in time for the Sundaymorning love-feast. I always like to come on ahead,and see how the land lies.  Well, good-night! Your headwill be all right in the morning."Precisely what she meant by this assurance, Theron didnot attempt to guess.  He received her adieu, noted themasterful manner in which she kissed his wife, and watchedher pass out into the hall, with the feeling uppermostthat this was a person who decidedly knew her way about. Much as he was prepared to dislike her, and much as hedetested the vulgar methods her profession typified,he could not deny that she seemed a very capable sortof woman.This mental concession did not prevent his fixing upon Alice,when she returned to the room, a glance of obvious disapproval."Theron," she broke forth, to anticipate his reproach,"I did it for the best.  The Pierces would have gother if I hadn't cut in.  I thought it would helpto have her on our side.  And, besides, I like her. She's the first sister I've seen since we've been in thishole that's had a kind word for me--or--or sympathizedwith me!  And--and--if you're going to be offended--I shall cry!"There were real tears on her lashes, ready to make goodthe threat.  "Oh, I guess I wouldn't," said Theron,with an approach to his old, half-playful manner. "If you like her, that's the chief thing."Alice shook her tear-drops away.  "No," she replied,with a wistful smile; "the chief thing is to have herlike you.  She's as smart as a steel trap--that woman is--and if she took the notion, I believe she could help get usa better place."CHAPTER XIVThe ensuing week went by with a buzz and whirl,circling about Theron Ware's dizzy consciousness likesome huge, impalpable teetotum sent spinning under SisterSoulsby's resolute hands.  Whenever his vagrant memoryrecurred to it, in after months, he began by marvelling,and ended with a shudder of repulsion.It was a week crowded with events, which seemed to himto shoot past so swiftly that in effect they came allof a heap.  He never essayed the task, in retrospect,of arranging them in their order of sequence. They had, however, a definite and interdependentchronology which it is worth the while to trace.Mrs. Soulsby brought her trunk round to the parsonage brightand early on Friday morning, and took up her lodgementin the best bedroom, and her headquarters in the houseat large, with a cheerful and business-like manner. She desired nothing so much, she said, as that peopleshould not put themselves out on her account, or allowher to get in their way.  She appeared to mean this, too,and to have very good ideas about securing its realization.During both Friday and the following day, indeed, Theron sawher only at the family meals.  There she displayed a heartyrelish for all that was set before her which quite wonMrs. Ware's heart, and though she talked rather more thanTheron found himself expecting from a woman, he could not denythat her conversation was both seemly and entertaining. She had evidently been a great traveller, and referredto things she had seen in Savannah or Montreal or LosAngeles in as matter-of-fact fashion as he could have spokenof a visit to Tecumseh.  Theron asked her many questionsabout these and other far-off cities, and her answerswere all so pat and showed so keen and clear an eye thathe began in spite of himself to think of her with acertain admiration.She in turn plied him with inquiries about the principalpew-holders and members of his congregation--their means,their disposition, and the measure of their devotion. She put these queries with such intelligence, and seemedto assimilate his replies with such an alert understanding,that the young minister was spurred to put dashes of characterin his descriptions, and set forth the idiosyncrasiesand distinguishing earmarks of his flock with what hefelt afterward might have been too free a tongue.  But atthe time her fine air of appreciation led him captive. He gossiped about his parishioners as if he enjoyed it. He made a specially happy thumb-nail sketch for her ofone of his trustees, Erastus Winch, the loud-mouthed,ostentatiously jovial, and really cold-hearted cheese-buyer.She was particularly interested in hearing about this man. The personality of Winch seemed to have impressed her,and she brought the talk back to him more than once,and prompted Theron to the very threshold of indiscretionin his confidences on the subject.Save at meal-times, Sister Soulsby spent the two days outaround among the Methodists of Octavius.  She had littleor nothing to say about what she thus saw and heard,but used it as the basis for still further inquiries. She told more than once, however, of how she had beenpressed here or there to stay to dinner or supper, and howshe had excused herself.  "I've knocked about too much,"she would explain to the Wares, "not to fight shy of randomcountry cooking.  When I find such a born cook as you are--well I know when I'm well off."  Alice flushed with pleasedpride at this, and Theron himself felt that their visitorshowed great good sense.  By Saturday noon, the twowomen were calling each other by their first names. Theron learned with a certain interest that Sister Soulsby'sChristian name was Candace.It was only natural that he should give even morethought to her than to her quaint and unfamiliar oldEthiopian name.  She was undoubtedly a very smart woman. To his surprise she had never introduced in her talk anyof the stock religious and devotional phrases which officialMethodists so universally employed in mutual converse. She might have been an insurance agent, or a school-teacher,visiting in a purely secular household, so little paradeof cant was there about her.He caught himself wondering how old she was. She seemed to have been pretty well over the wholeAmerican continent, and that must take years of time. Perhaps, however, the exertion of so much travel would tendto age one in appearance.  Her eyes were still youthful--decidedly wise eyes, but still juvenile.  They had sparkledwith almost girlish merriment at some of his jokes. She turned them about a good deal when she spoke,making their glances fit and illustrate the things she said. He had never met any one whose eyes played so constantand prominent a part in their owner's conversation. Theron had never seen a play; but he had encounteredthe portraits of famous queens of the drama several timesin illustrated papers or shop windows, and it occurredto him that some of the more marked contortions of SisterSoulsby's eyes--notably a trick she had of rollingthem swiftly round and plunging them, so to speak,into an intent, yearning, one might almost say devouring,gaze at the speaker--were probably employed by eminentactresses like Ristori and Fanny Davenport.The rest of Sister Soulsby was undoubtedly subordinatedin interest to those eyes of hers.  Sometimes her faceseemed to be reviving temporarily a comeliness whichhad been constant in former days; then again it wouldlook decidedly, organically, plain.  It was the wornand loose-skinned face of a nervous, middle-aged woman,who had had more than her share of trouble, and drank toomuch tea.  She wore the collar of her dress rather low;and Theron found himself wondering at this, because,though long and expansive, her neck certainly showedmore cords and cavities than consorted with his vagueideal of statuesque beauty.  Then he wondered at himselffor thinking about it, and abruptly reined up his fancy,only to find that it was playing with speculationsas to whether her yellowish complexion was due to thattea-drinking or came to her as a legacy of Southern blood.He knew that she was born in the South because she said so. From the same source he learned that her father had beena wealthy planter, who was ruined by the war, and sank intoa premature grave under the weight of his accumulated losses. The large dark rings around her eyes grew deeper still intheir shadows when she told about this, and her ordinarilysharp voice took on a mellow cadence, with a soft,drawling accent, turning U's into O's, and having no R'sto speak of.  Theron had imbibed somewhere in early daysthe conviction that the South was the land of romance,of cavaliers and gallants and black eyes flashing behindmantillas and outspread fans, and somehow when SisterSoulsby used this intonation she suggested all these things.But almost all her talk was in another key--a brisk,direct, idiomatic manner of speech, with an intonationhinting at no section in particular.  It was merely thatof the city-dweller as distinguished from the rustic. She was of about Alice's height, perhaps a shade taller. It did not escape the attention of the Wares that she woreclothes of a more stylish cut and a livelier arrangement of huesthan any Alice had ever dared own, even in lax-minded Tyre. The two talked of this in their room on Friday night;and Theron explained that congregations would toleratethings of this sort with a stranger which would be sharplyresented in the case of local folk whom they controlled. It was on this occasion that Alice in turn told Theronshe was sure Mrs. Soulsby had false teeth--a confidencewhich she immediately regretted as an act of treacheryto her sex.On Saturday afternoon, toward evening, Brother Soulsbyarrived, and was guided to the parsonage by his wife,who had gone to the depot to meet him.  They must havetalked over the situation pretty thoroughly on the way,for by the time the new-comer had washed his faceand hands and put on a clean collar, Sister Soulsbywas ready to announce her plan of campaign in detail.Her husband was a man of small stature and, like herself,of uncertain age.  He had a gentle, if rather dry,clean-shaven face, and wore his dust-colored hairlong behind.  His little figure was clad in blackclothes of a distinctively clerical fashion, and hehad a white neck-cloth neatly tied under his collar. The Wares noted that he looked clean and amiablerather than intellectually or spiritually powerful,as he took the vacant seat between theirs, and joinedthem in concentrating attention upon Mrs. Soulsby.This lady, holding herself erect and alert on the edgeof the low, big easy-chair had the air of presidingover a meeting."My idea is," she began, with an easy implication that noone else's idea was needed, "that your Quarterly Conference,when it meets on Monday, must be adjourned to Tuesday. We will have the people all out tomorrow morningto love-feast, and announcement can be made there,and at the morning service afterward, that a seriesof revival meetings are to be begun that same evening. Mr. Soulsby and I can take charge in the evening, and we'llsee to it that THAT packs the house--fills the churchto overflowing Monday evening.  Then we'll quietly turnthe meeting into a debt-raising convention, before theyknow where they are, and we'll wipe off the best partof the load.  Now, don't you see," she turned her eyesfull upon Theron as she spoke, "you want to hold yourQuarterly Conference AFTER this money's been raised,not before.""I see what you mean," Mr. Ware responded gravely. "But--""But what!"  Sister Soulsby interjected, with vivacity."Well," said Theron, picking his words, "in the first place,it rests with the Presiding Elder to say whetheran adjournment can be made until Tuesday, not with me.""That's all right.  Leave that to me," said the lady."In the second place," Theron went on, still more hesitatingly,"there seems a certain--what shall I say?--indirection in--in--""In getting them together for a revival, and springinga debt-raising on them?"  Sister Soulsby put in. "Why, man alive, that's the best part of it.  You oughtto be getting some notion by this time what these Octaviusfolks of yours are like.  I've only been here two days,but I've got their measure down to an allspice. Supposing you were to announce tomorrow that the debtwas to be raised Monday.  How many men with bank-accountswould turn up, do you think?  You could put them all inyour eye, sir--all in your eye!""Very possibly you're right," faltered the young minister."Right?  Why, of course I'm right," she said,with placid confidence.  "You've got to take folks as youfind them; and you've got to find them the best wayyou can.  One place can be worked, managed, in one way,and another needs quite a different way, and both wayswould be dead frosts--complete failures--in a third."Brother Soulsby coughed softly here, and shuffled his feetfor an instant on the carpet.  His wife resumed her remarkswith slightly abated animation, and at a slower pace."My experience," she said, "has shown me that the Apostlewas right.  To properly serve the cause, one must beall things to all men.  I have known very queer thingsindeed turn out to be means of grace.  You simply CAN'Tget along without some of the wisdom of the serpent. We are commanded to have it, for that matter.  And now,speaking of that, do you know when the Presiding Elderarrives in town today, and where he is going to eat supperand sleep?"Theron shook his head.  "All I know is he isn't likelyto come here," he said, and added sadly, "I'm afraid he'snot an admirer of mine.""Perhaps that's not all his fault," commented Sister Soulsby. "I'll tell you something.  He came in on the same trainas my husband, and that old trustee Pierce of yours waswaiting for him with his buggy, and I saw like a flashwhat was in the wind, and the minute the train stopped Icaught the Presiding Elder, and invited him in your nameto come right here and stay; told him you and Alice werejust set on his coming--wouldn't take no for an answer. Of course he couldn't come--I knew well enough he hadpromised old Pierce--but we got in our invitation anyway,and it won't do you any harm.  Now, that's what I callhaving some gumption--wisdom of the serpent, and so on.""I'm sure," remarked Alice, "I should have been mortifiedto death if he had come.  We lost the extension-leafto our table in moving, and four is all it'll seat decently."Sister Soulsby smiled winningly into the wife's honest face. "Don't you see, dear," she explained patiently, "I onlyasked him because I knew he couldn't come.  A little butterspreads a long way, if it's only intelligently warmed.""It was certainly very ingenious of you," Theron beganalmost stiffly.  Then he yielded to the humanities,and with a kindling smile added, "And it was as kindas kind could be.  I'm afraid you're wrong about it'sdoing me any good, but I can see how well you meant it,and I'm grateful.""We COULD have sneaked in the kitchen table, perhaps,while he was out in the garden, and put on the extralong tablecloth," interjected Alice, musingly.Sister Soulsby smiled again at Sister Ware, but withoutany words this time; and Alice on the instant rose,with the remark that she must be going out to seeabout supper."I'm going to insist on coming out to help you,"Mrs. Soulsby declared, "as soon as I've talked over onelittle matter with your husband.  Oh, yes, you mustlet me this time.  I insist!"As the kitchen door closed behind Mrs. Ware, a swiftand apparently significant glance shot its way acrossfrom Sister Soulsby's roving, eloquent eyes to the calmerand smaller gray orbs of her husband.  He rose to his feet,made some little explanation about being a gardener himself,and desiring to inspect more closely some rhododendronshe had noticed in the garden, and forthwith moveddecorously out by the other door into the front hall. They heard his footsteps on the gravel beneath the windowbefore Mrs. Soulsby spoke again."You're right about the Presiding Elder, and you're wrong,"she said.  "He isn't what one might call precisely in lovewith you.  Oh, I know the story--how you got into debtat Tyre, and he stepped in and insisted on your beingdenied Tecumseh and sent here instead.""HE was responsible for that, then, was he?" broke in Theron,with contracted brows."Why, don't you make any effort to find out anything at ALLshe asked pertly enough, but with such obvious good-naturethat he could not but have pleasure in her speech. "Why, of course he did it!  Who else did you suppose?""Well," said the young minister, despondently, "if he'sas much against me as all that, I might as well hang upmy fiddle and go home."Sister Soulsby gave a little involuntary groan of impatience. She bent forward, and, lifting her eyes, rolled them at himin a curve of downward motion which suggested to his fancythe image of two eagles in a concerted pounce upon a lamb."My friend," she began, with a new note of impressivenessin her voice, "if you'll pardon my saying it, you haven'tgot the spunk of a mouse.  If you're going to lay down,and let everybody trample over you just as they please,you're right!  You MIGHT as well go home.  But now here,this is what I wanted to say to you:  Do you just keep your handsoff these next few days, and leave this whole thing to me. I'll pull it into shipshape for you.  No--wait a minute--don't interrupt now.  I have taken a liking to you. You've got brains, and you've got human nature in you,and heart.  What you lack is SABE--common-sense. You'llget that, too, in time, and meanwhile I'm not going to standby and see you cut up and fed to the dogs for want of it. I'll get you through this scrape, and put you on yourfeet again, right-side-up-with care, because, as I said,I like you.  I like your wife, too, mind.  She's a good,honest little soul, and she worships the very ground youtread on.  Of course, as long as people WILL marry intheir teens, the wrong people will get yoked up together. But that's neither here nor there.  She's a kind sweetlittle body, and she's devoted to you, and it isn't everyintellectual man that gets even that much.  But nowit's a go, is it?  You promise to keep quiet, do you,and leave the whole show absolutely to me?  Shake handson it."Sister Soulsby had risen, and stood now holding out her handin a frank, manly fashion.  Theron looked at the hand,and made mental notes that there were a good many veinsdiscernible on the small wrist, and that the forearmseemed to swell out more than would have been expectedin a woman producing such a general effect of leanness. He caught the shine of a thin bracelet-band of gold underthe sleeve.  A delicate, significant odor just hintedits presence in the air about this outstretched arm--something which was not a perfume, yet deserved as graciousa name.He rose to his feet, and took the proffered hand with adeliberate gesture, as if he had been cautiously weighingall the possible arguments for and against this momentous compact."I promise," he said gravely, and the two palms squeezedthemselves together in an earnest clasp."Right you are," exclaimed the lady, once more withcheery vivacity.  "Mind, when it's all over, I'm goingto give you a good, serious, downright talking to--a regular hoeing-over. I'm not sure I shan't giveyou a sound shaking into the bargain.  You need it. And now I'm going out to help Alice."The Reverend Mr. Ware remained standing after his new friendhad left the room, and his meditative face wore an evenunusual air of abstraction.  He strolled aimlessly over,after a time, to the desk by the window, and stood therelooking out at the slight figure of Brother Soulsby,who was bending over and attentively regarding some pinkblossoms on a shrub through what seemed to be a pocketmagnifying-glass.What remained uppermost in his mind was not this interestingwoman's confident pledge of championship in his materialdifficulties.  He found himself dwelling instead upon herremark about the incongruous results of early marriages. He wondered idly if the little man in the white tie,fussing out there over that rhododendron-bush, had figuredin her thoughts as an example of these evils.  Then he reflectedthat they had been mentioned in clear relation to talk about Alice.Now that he faced this question, it was as if he had beenconsciously ignoring and putting it aside for a long time. How was it, he asked himself now, that Alice, who hadonce seemed so bright and keen-witted, who had in truthstarted out immeasurably his superior in swiftness ofapprehension and readiness in humorous quips and conceits,should have grown so dull?  For she was undoubtedly slowto understand things nowadays.  Her absurd lugging in ofthe extension-table problem, when the great strategicpoint of that invitation foisted upon the Presiding Eldercame up, was only the latest sample of a score of theseheavy-minded exhibitions that recalled themselves to him. And outsiders were apparently beginning to notice it. He knew by intuition what those phrases, "good, honestlittle soul" and "kind, sweet little body" signified,when another woman used them to a husband about his wife. The very employment of that word "little" was enough,considering that there was scarcely more than a hair'sdifference between Mrs. Soulsby and Alice, and that theywere both rather tall than otherwise, as the stature ofwomen went.What she had said about the chronic misfortunes ofintellectual men in such matters gave added point to thosemeaning phrases.  Nobody could deny that geniuses and menof conspicuous talent had as a rule, all through history,contracted unfortunate marriages.  In almost everycase where their wives were remembered at all, it wason account of their abnormal stupidity, or bad temper,or something of that sort.  Take Xantippe, for example,and Shakespeare's wife, and--and--well, there was Byron,and Bulwer-Lytton, and ever so many others.Of course there was nothing to be done about it. These things happened, and one could only put the bestpossible face on them, and live one's appointed lifeas patiently and contentedly as might be.  And Aliceundoubtedly merited all the praise which had been sogenerously bestowed upon her.  She was good and honestand kindly, and there could be no doubt whateveras to her utter devotion to him.  These were tangible,solid qualities, which must always secure respect for her. It was true that she no longer seemed to be very popularamong people.  He questioned whether men, for instance,like Father Forbes and Dr. Ledsmar would care muchabout her.  Visions of the wifeless and academic calmin which these men spent their lives--an existenceconsecrated to literature and knowledge and familiaritywith all the loftiest and noblest thoughts of the past--rose and enveloped him in a cloud of depression.  No suchlot would be his!  He must labor along among ignorantand spiteful narrow-minded people to the end of his days,pocketing their insults and fawning upon the harsh hands ofjealous nonentities who happened to be his official masters,just to keep a roof over his head--or rather Alice's.He must sacrifice everything to this, his ambitions,his passionate desires to do real good in the world ona large scale, his mental freedom, yes, even his chanceof having truly elevating, intellectual friendships. For it was plain enough that the men whose friendshipwould be of genuine and stimulating profit to him wouldnot like her.  Now that he thought of it, she seemedlatterly to make no friends at all.Suddenly, as he watched in a blank sort of way BrotherSoulsby take out a penknife, and lop an offending twigfrom a rose-bush against the fence, something occurredto him.  There was a curious exception to that ruleof Alice's isolation.  She had made at least one friend. Levi Gorringe seemed to like her extremely.As if his mind had been a camera, Theron snapped ashutter down upon this odd, unbidden idea, and turnedaway from the window.The sounds of an active, almost strenuous conversationin female voices came from the kitchen.  Theron openedthe door noiselessly, and put in his head, conscious ofsomething furtive in his intention."You must dreen every drop of water off the spinach,mind, before you put it over, or else--"It was Sister Soulsby's sharp and penetrating toneswhich came to him.  Theron closed the door again,and surrendered himself once more to the circling whirlof his thoughts.CHAPTER XVA love-feast at nine in the morning opened the publicservices of a Sunday still memorable in the annalsof Octavius Methodism.This ceremony, which four times a year preceded the sessionsof the Quarterly Conference, was not necessarily an eventof importance.  It was an occasion upon which the brethrenand sisters who clung to the old-fashioned, primitiveways of the itinerant circuit-riders, let themselves gowith emphasized independence, putting up more vehementprayers than usual, and adding a special fervor of noiseto their "Amens!" and other interjections--and that was all.It was Theron's first love-feast in Octavius, and as thebig class-room in the church basement began to fill up,and he noted how the men with ultra radical views and thewomen clad in the most ostentatious drabs and grays werecrowding into the front seats, he felt his spirits sinking. He had literally to force himself from sentence to sentence,when the time came for him to rise and open the proceedingswith an exhortation.  He had eagerly offered this functionto the Presiding Elder, the Rev. Aziel P. Larrabee,who sat in severe silence on the little platform behind him,but had been informed that the dignitary would lead offin giving testimony later on.  So Theron, feeling allthe while the hostile eyes of the Elder burning holesin his back, dragged himself somehow through the task. He had never known any such difficulty of speech before. The relief was almost overwhelming when he came to thecustomary part where all are adjured to be as briefas possible in witnessing for the Lord, because the timebelongs to all the people, and the Discipline forbidsthe feast to last more than ninety minutes.  He deliveredthis injunction to brevity with marked earnestness,and then sat down abruptly.There was some rather boisterous singing, during whichthe stewards, beginning with the platform, passed platesof bread cut in small cubes, and water in big platedpitchers and tumblers, about among the congregation,threading their way between the long wooden benchesordinarily occupied at this hour by the children ofthe Sunday-school, and helping each brother and sisterin turn.  They held by the old custom, here in Octavius,and all along the seats the sexes alternated, as theydo at a polite dinner-table.Theron impassively watched the familiar scene.  The earlynervousness had passed away.  He felt now that he was notin the least afraid of these people, even with the PresidingElder thrown in.  Folks who sang with such unintelligence,and who threw themselves with such undignified fervorinto this childish business of the bread and water,could not be formidable antagonists for a man of intellect. He had never realized before what a spectacle theMethodist love-feast probably presented to outsiders. What must they think of it!He had noticed that the Soulsbys sat together, in the centreand toward the front.  Next to Brother Soulsby sat Alice. He thought she looked pale and preoccupied, and set itdown in passing to her innate distaste for the sombergarments she was wearing, and for the company she perforcefound herself in.  Another head was in the way, and for atime Theron did not observe who sat beside Alice on theother side.  When at last he saw that it was Levi Gorringe,his instinct was to wonder what the lawyer must be sayingto himself about these noisy and shallow enthusiasts. A recurring emotion of loyalty to the simple peopleamong whom, after all, he had lived his whole life,prompted him to feel that it wasn't wholly nice of Gorringeto come and enjoy this revelation of their foolish side,as if it were a circus.  There was some vague memory in hismind which associated Gorringe with other love-feasts,and with a cynical attitude toward them.  Oh, yes! hehad told how he went to one just for the sake of sittingbeside the girl he admired--and was pursuing.The stewards had completed their round, and the loud,discordant singing came to an end.  There ensued alittle pause, during which Theron turned to the PresidingElder with a gesture of invitation to take charge of thefurther proceedings.  The Elder responded with another gesture,calling his attention to something going on in front.Brother and Sister Soulsby, to the considerable surpriseof everybody, had risen to their feet, and were standingin their places, quite motionless, and with an air ofprofessional self-assurance dimly discernible under a largeshow of humility.  They stood thus until complete silencehad been secured.  Then the woman, lifting her head,began to sing.  The words were "Rock of Ages," but no onepresent had heard the tune to which she wedded them. Her voice was full and very sweet, and had in ittender cadences which all her hearers found touching. She knew how to sing, and she put forth the wordsso that each was distinctly intelligible.  There camea part where Brother Soulsby, lifting his head in turn,took up a tuneful second to her air.  Although thetwo did not, as one could hear by listening closely,sing the same words at the same time, they produced nonethe less most moving and delightful harmonies of sound.The experience was so novel and charming that listenersran ahead in their minds to fix the number of verses therewere in the hymn, and to hope that none would be left out. Toward the end, when some of the intolerably self-conceitedlocal singers, fancying they had caught the tune,started to join in, they were stopped by an indignant"sh-h!" which rose from all parts of the class-room;and the Soulsbys, with a patient and pensive kindlinesswritten on their uplifted faces, gave that verse over again.What followed seemed obviously restrained and modified by theeffect of this unlooked-for and tranquillizing overture. The Presiding Elder was known to enjoy visits to old-fashionedcongregations like that of Octavius, where he couldindulge to the full his inner passion for high-pitchedpassionate invocations and violent spiritual demeanor,but this time he spoke temperately, almost soothingly. The most tempestuous of the local witnesses for the Lordgave in their testimony in relatively pacific tones,under the influence of the spell which good music hadlaid upon the gathering.  There was the deepest interestas to what the two visitors would do in this way. Brother Soulsby spoke first, very briefly and in well roundedand well-chosen, if conventional, phrases.  His wife,following him, delivered in a melodious monotone someequally hackneyed remarks.  The assemblage, listening inrapt attention, felt the suggestion of reserved power inevery sentence she uttered, and burst forth, as she droppedinto her seat, in a loud chorus of approving ejaculations. The Soulsbys had captured Octavius with their first outerskirmish line.Everything seemed to move forward now with a new zestand spontaneity.  Theron had picked out for the occasionthe best of those sermons which he had prepared in Tyre,at the time when he was justifying his ambition to beaccounted a pulpit orator.  It was orthodox enough,but had been planned as the framework for picturesqueand emotional rhetoric rather than doctrinal edification. He had never dreamed of trying it on Octavius before,and only on the yesterday had quavered at his own daringin choosing it now.  Nothing but the desire to show SisterSoulsby what was in him had held him to the selection.Something of this same desire no doubt swayed and steadiedhim now in the pulpit.  The labored slowness of his beginningseemed to him to be due to nervous timidity, until suddenly,looking down into those big eyes of Sister Soulsby's,which were bent gravely upon him from where she sat besideAlice in the minister's pew, he remembered that it wasinstead the studied deliberation which art had taught him. He went on, feeling more and more that the skill andhistrionic power of his best days were returning to him,were as marked as ever--nay, had never triumphed beforeas they were triumphing now.  The congregation watchedand listened with open, steadfast eyes and parted lips. For the first time in all that weary quarter, theirfaces shone.  The sustaining sparkle of their gaze liftedhim to a peroration unrivalled in his own recollection of himself.He sat down, and bent his head forward upon the open Bible,breathing hard, but suffused with a glow of satisfaction. His ears caught the music of that sighing rustle throughthe audience which bespeaks a profound impression. He could scarcely keep the fingers of his hands,covering his bowed face in a devotional posture as they were,from drumming a jubilant tattoo.  His pulses did thisin every vein, throbbing with excited exultation. The insistent whim seized him, as he still bent thusbefore his people, to whisper to his own heart, "At last!--The dogs!"The announcement that in the evening a series of revivalmeetings was to be inaugurated, had been made at thelove-feast, and it was repeated now from the pulpit,with the added statement that for the once the class-meetingsusually following this morning service would be suspended. Then Theron came down the steps, conscious after a fashionthat the Presiding Elder had laid a propitiatory hand on hisshoulder and spoken amiably about the sermon, and that severalgroups of more or less important parishioners were waitingin the aisle and the vestibule to shake hands and tell himhow much they had enjoyed the sermon.  His mind perverselykept hold of the thought that all this came too late. He politely smiled his way along out, and, overtaking theSoulsbys and his wife near the parsonage gate, went in with them.At the cold, picked-up noonday meal which was the Sundayrule of the house, Theron rather expected that his guestswould talk about the sermon, or at any rate about the eventsof the morning.  A Sabbath chill seemed to have settledupon both their tongues.  They ate almost in silence,and their sparse remarks touched upon topics far removedfrom church affairs.  Alice too, seemed strangelydisinclined to conversation.  The husband knew her faceand its varying moods so well that he could see shewas laboring under some very powerful and deep emotion. No doubt it was the sermon, the oratorical swing of whichstill tingled in his own blood, that had so affected her. If she had said so, it would have pleased him, but shesaid nothing.After dinner, Brother Soulsby disappeared in his bedroom,with the remark that he guessed he would lie down awhile. Sister Soulsby put on her bonnet, and, explaining that shealways prepared herself for an evening's work by a longsolitary walk, quitted the house.  Alice, after she had putthe dinner things away, went upstairs, and stayed there. Left to himself, Theron spent the afternoon in theeasy-chair, and, in the intervals of confused introspection,read "Recollections of my Youth" through again from coverto cover.He went through the remarkable experiences attendingthe opening of the revival, when evening came, as one ina dream.  Long before the hour for the service arrived,the sexton came in to tell him that the church was alreadynearly full, and that it was going to be impossibleto present any distinction in the matter of pews. When the party from the parsonage went over--after anothercold and mostly silent meal--it was to find the interiorof the church densely packed, and people being turnedaway from the doors.Theron was supposed to preside over what followed, and hedid sit on the central chair in the pulpit, between thePresiding Elder and Brother Soulsby, and on the severalneedful occasions did rise and perfunctorily make the formalremarks required of him.  The Elder preached a short,but vigorously phrased sermon.  The Soulsbys sang three orfour times--on each occasion with familiar hymnal words setto novel, concerted music--and then separately exhortedthe assemblage.  The husband's part seemed well done. If his speech lacked some of the fire of the divine girdingswhich older Methodists recalled, it still led straight,and with kindling fervency, up to a season of power. The wife took up the word as he sat down.  She had risenfrom one of the side-seats; and, speaking as she walked,she moved forward till she stood within the altar-rail,immediately under the pulpit, and from this place,facing the listening throng, she delivered her harangue. Those who watched her words most intently got the leastsense of meaning from them.  The phrases were all familiarenough--"Jesus a very present help," "Sprinkled by the Blood,""Comforted by the Word," "Sanctified by the Spirit,""Born into the Kingdom," and a hundred others--but itwas as in the case of her singing:  the words were old;the music was new.What Sister Soulsby said did not matter.  The way shesaid it--the splendid, searching sweep of her great eyes;the vibrating roll of her voice, now full of tears, now scornful,now boldly, jubilantly triumphant; the sympathetic swayingof her willowy figure under the stress of her eloquence--was all wonderful.  When she had finished, and stood,flushed and panting, beneath the shadow of the pulpit,she held up a hand deprecatingly as the resounding "Amens!"and "Bless the Lords!" began to well up about her."You have heard us sing," she said, smiling to apologizefor her shortness of breath.  "Now we want to hear you sing!"Her husband had risen as she spoke, and on the instant,with a far greater volume of voice than they had hithertodisclosed, the two began "From Greenland's Icy Mountains,"in the old, familiar tune.  It did not need Sister Soulsby'surgent and dramatic gesture to lift people to their feet. The whole assemblage sprang up, and, under the guidanceof these two powerful leading voices, thundered the hymnout as Octavius had never heard it before.While its echoes were still alive, the woman beganspeaking again.  "Don't sit down!" she cried. "You would stand up if the President of the UnitedStates was going by, even if he was only going fishing. How much more should you stand up in honor of livingsouls passing forward to find their Saviour!"The psychological moment was upon them.  Groans andcries arose, and a palpable ferment stirred the throng. The exhortation to sinners to declare themselves, to cometo the altar, was not only on the revivalist's lips: it seemed to quiver in the very air, to be borne on everyinarticulate exclamation in the clamor of the brethren. A young woman, with a dazed and startled look in her eyes,rose in the body of the church tremblingly hesitated fora moment, and then, with bowed head and blushing cheeks,pressed her way out from the end of a crowded pew and downthe aisle to the rail.  A triumphant outburst of welcomingejaculations swelled to the roof as she knelt there,and under its impetus others followed her example. With interspersed snatches of song and shouted encouragementsthe excitement reached its height only when twoscore people,mostly young, were tightly clustered upon their kneesabout the rail, and in the space opening upon the aisle. Above the confusion of penitential sobs and moans, and thehysterical murmurings of members whose conviction of entiresanctity kept them in their seats, could be heard the voicesof the Presiding Elder, the Soulsbys, and the elderlydeacons of the church, who moved about among the kneelingmourners, bending over them and patting their shoulders,and calling out to them:  "Fasten your thoughts on Jesus!" "Oh, the Precious Blood!"  "Blessed be His Name!" "Seek Him, and you shall find Him!"  "Cling to Jesus,and Him Crucified!"The Rev. Theron Ware did not, with the others, descend fromthe pulpit.  Seated where he could not see Sister Soulsby,he had failed utterly to be moved by the wave of enthusiasmshe had evoked.  What he heard her say disappointed him. He had expected from her more originality, more spice ofher own idiomatic, individual sort.  He viewed with a coldsense of aloofness the evidences of her success when theybegan to come forward and abase themselves at the altar. The instant resolve that, come what might, he would not godown there among them, sprang up ready-made in his mind. He saw his two companions pass him and descend the pulpitstairs, and their action only hardened his resolution. If an excuse were needed, he was presiding, and the placeto preside in was the pulpit.  But he waived in his mindthe whole question of an excuse.After a little, he put his hand over his face, leaning theelbow forward on the reading-desk. The scene below would havethrilled him to the marrow six months--yes, three months ago. He put a finger across his eyes now, to half shut it out. The spectacle of these silly young "mourners"--kneelingthey knew not why, trembling at they could not tell what,pledging themselves frantically to dogmas and mysteriesthey knew nothing of, under the influence of a hubbubof outcries as meaningless in their way, and inspiringin much the same way, as the racket of a fife anddrum corps--the spectacle saddened and humiliatedhim now.  He was conscious of a dawning sense of shameat being even tacitly responsible for such a thing. His fancy conjured up the idea of Dr. Ledsmar comingin and beholding this maudlin and unseemly scene,and he felt his face grow hot at the bare thought.Looking through his fingers, Theron all at once sawsomething which caught at his breath with a sharp clutch. Alice had risen from the minister's pew--the most conspicuousone in the church--and was moving down the aisle towardthe rail, her uplifted face chalk-like in its whiteness,and her eyes wide-open, looking straight ahead.The young pastor could scarcely credit his sight. He thrust aside his hand, and bent forward, only to seehis wife sink upon her knees among the rest, and to hearthis notable accession to the "mourners" hailed by atumult of approving shouts.  Then, remembering himself,he drew back and put up his hand, shutting out the strangescene altogether.  To see nothing at all was a relief,and under cover he closed his eyes, and bit his teeth together.A fresh outburst of thanksgivings, spreading noisilythrough the congregation, prompted him to peer throughhis fingers again.  Levi Gorringe was making his waydown the aisle--was at the moment quite in front. Theron found himself watching this man with the sterncomposure of a fatalist.  The clamant brethren down belowwere stirred to new excitement by the thought that thesceptical lawyer, so long with them, yet not of them,had been humbled and won by the outpourings of the Spirit. Theron's perceptions were keener.  He knew that Gorringewas coming forward to kneel beside Alice; The knowledgeleft him curiously undisturbed.  He saw the lawyer advance,gently insinuate himself past the form of some kneelingmourner who was in his way, and drop on his knees closebeside the bowed figure of Alice.  The two touchedshoulders as they bent forward beneath Sister Soulsby'soutstretched hands, held over them as in a blessing. Theron looked fixedly at them, and professed to himselfthat he was barely interested.A little afterward, he was standing up in his place,and reading aloud a list of names which one of the stewardshad given him.  They were the names of those who hadasked that evening to be taken into the church as memberson probation.  The sounds of the recent excitementwere all hushed now, save as two or three enthusiastsin a corner raised their voices in abrupt greeting ofeach name in its turn, but Theron felt somehow that thisnoise had been transferred to the inside of his head. A continuous buzzing went on there, so that the soundof his voice was far-off and unfamiliar in his ears.He read through the list--comprising some fifteen items--and pronounced the names with great distinctness. It was necessary to take pains with this, because theonly name his blurred eyes seemed to see anywhere on thefoolscap sheet was that of Levi Gorringe.  When he hadfinished and was taking his seat, some one began speakingto him from the body of the church.  He saw that thiswas the steward, who was explaining to him that the mostimportant name of the lot--that of Brother Gorringe--had not been read out.Theron smiled and shook his head.  Then, when the PresidingElder touched him on the arm, and assured him that he hadnot mentioned the name in question, he replied quite simply,and with another smile, "I thought it was the only nameI did read out."Then he sat down abruptly, and let his head fall to one side. There were hurried movements inside the pulpit, and peoplein the audience had begun to stand up wonderingly,when the Presiding Elder, with uplifted hands, confronted them."We will omit the Doxology, and depart quietly afterthe benediction," he said.  "Brother Ware seems to havebeen overcome by the heat."CHAPTER XVIWhen Theron woke next morning, Alice seemed to have dressedand left the room--a thing which had never happened before.This fact connected itself at once in his brain with therecollection of her having made an exhibition of herselfthe previous evening--going forward before all eyes to jointhe unconverted and penitent sinners, as if she weresome tramp or shady female, instead of an educated lady,a professing member from her girlhood, and a minister's wife. It crossed his mind that probably she had risen and gotaway noiselessly, for very shame at looking him in the face,after such absurd behavior.Then he remembered more, and grasped the situation. He had fainted in church, and had been brought home and helpedto bed.  Dim memories of unaccustomed faces in the bedroom,of nauseous drugs and hushed voices, came to him out of thenight-time. Now that he thought of it, he was a sick man. Having settled this, he went off to sleep again,a feverish and broken sleep, and remained in this statemost of the time for the following twenty-four hours. In the brief though numerous intervals of waking, he foundcertain things clear in his mind.  One was that he wasannoyed with Alice, but would dissemble his feelings. Another was that it was much pleasanter to be ill than to beforced to attend and take part in those revival meetings. These two ideas came and went in a lazy, drowsy fashion,mixing themselves up with other vagrant fancies, yet alwaysremaining on top.In the evening the singing from the church next doorfilled his room.  The Soulsbys' part of it was worthkeeping awake for.  He turned over and deliberatelydozed when the congregation sang.Alice came up a number of times during the day to askhow he felt, and to bring him broth or toast-water. Onseveral occasions, when he heard her step, the perverseinclination mastered him to shut his eyes, and pretendto be asleep, so that she might tip-toe out again. She had a depressed and thoughtful air, and spoke to himlike one whose mind was on something else.  Neither ofthem alluded to what had happened the previous evening. Toward the close of the long day, she came to ask himwhether he would prefer her to remain in the house,instead of attending the meeting."Go, by all means," he said almost curtly.The Presiding Elder and the Sunday-school superintendentcalled early Tuesday morning at the parsonage to makebrotherly inquiries, and Theron was feeling so much betterthat he himself suggested their coming upstairs to see him. The Elder was in good spirits; he smiled approvingly,and even put in a jocose word or two while the superintendentsketched for the invalid in a cheerful way the leadingincidents of the previous evening.There had been an enormous crowd, even greater than that ofSunday night, and everybody had been looking forward to anothernotable and exciting season of grace.  These expectationswere especially heightened when Sister Soulsby ascendedthe pulpit stairs and took charge of the proceedings. She deferred to Paul's views about women preacherson Sundays, she said; but on weekdays she had just as muchright to snatch brands from the burning as Paul, or Peter,or any other man.  She went on like that, in a breezy,off-hand fashion which tickled the audience immensely,and led to the liveliest anticipations of what wouldhappen when she began upon the evening's harvest of souls.But it was something else that happened.  At a signal fromSister Soulsby the steward got up, and, in an unconcerned sortof way, went through the throng to the rear of the church,locked the doors, and put the keys in their pockets. The sister dryly explained now to the surprised congregationthat there was a season for all things, and that on thepresent occasion they would suspend the glorious workof redeeming fallen human nature, and take up insteadthe equally noble task of raising some fifteen hundreddollars which the church needed in its business.  The doorswould only be opened again when this had been accomplished.The brethren were much taken aback by this trick, and theypermitted themselves to exchange a good many scowling andindignant glances, the while their professional visitorssang another of their delightfully novel sacred duets. Its charm of harmony for once fell upon unsympathetic ears. But then Sister Soulsby began another monologue, defendingthis way of collecting money, chaffing the assemblagewith bright-eyed impudence on their having been trapped,and scoring, one after another, neat and jocose littlepersonal points on local characteristics, at which everybodybut the individual touched grinned broadly.  She wasso droll and cheeky, and withal effective in her talk,that she quite won the crowd over.  She told a storyabout a woodchuck which fairly brought down the house."A man," she began, with a quizzical twinkle in her eye,"told me once about hunting a woodchuck with a packof dogs, and they chased it so hard that it finallyescaped only by climbing a butternut-tree. 'But,my friend,' I said to him, 'woodchucks can't climb trees--butternut-trees or any other kind--and you know it!' All he said in reply to me was:  'This woodchuck had toclimb a tree!'  And that's the way with this congregation. You think you can't raise $1,500, but you've GOT to."So it went on.  She set them all laughing; and then,with a twist of the eyes and a change of voice, lo,and behold, she had them nearly crying in the same breath. Under the pressure of these jumbled emotions, brethren beganto rise up in their pews and say what they would give. The wonderful woman had something smart and apt to say abouteach fresh contribution, and used it to screw up the generalinterest a notch further toward benevolent hysteria. With songs and jokes and impromptu exhortations andprayers she kept the thing whirling, until a sort of duelof generosity began between two of the most unlikely men--Erastus Winch and Levi Gorringe.  Everybody had been surprisedwhen Winch gave his first $50; but when he rose again,half an hour afterward, and said that, owing to the highpublic position of some of the new members on probation,he foresaw a great future for the church, and so feltmoved to give another $25, there was general amazement. Moved by a common instinct, all eyes were turned uponLevi Gorringe, and he, without the slightest hesitation,stood up and said he would give $100. There was somethingin his tone which must have annoyed Brother Winch, for he shotup like a dart, and called out, "Put me down for fifty more;"and that brought Gorringe to his feet with an added $50,and then the two went on raising each other till theassemblage was agape with admiring stupefaction.This gladiatorial combat might have been going on till now,the Sunday-school superintendent concluded, if Winchhadn't subsided.  The amount of the contributions hadn'tbeen figured up yet, for Sister Soulsby kept the list;but there had been a tremendous lot of money raised. Of that there could be no doubt.The Presiding Elder now told Theron that the QuarterlyConference had been adjourned yesterday till today. He and Brother Davis were even now on their way to attendthe session in the church next door.  The Elder added,with an obvious kindly significance, that though Theron wastoo ill to attend it, he guessed his absence would do himno harm.  Then the two men left the room, and Theron wentto sleep again.Another almost blank period ensued, this time lastingfor forty-eight hours.  The young minister was enfoldedin the coils of a fever of some sort, which Brother Soulsby,who had dabbled considerably in medicine, admitted thathe was puzzled about.  Sometimes he thought that itwas typhoid, and then again there were symptoms whichlooked suspiciously like brain fever.  The Methodistsof Octavius counted no physician among their numbers,and when, on the second day, Alice grew scared, and decided,with Brother Soulsby's assent, to call in professionaladvice, the only doctor's name she could recall was thatof Ledsmar.  She was conscious of an instinctive dislikefor the vague image of him her fancy had conjured up,but the reflection that he was Theron's friend, and soprobably would be more moderate in his charges, decided her.Brother Soulsby showed a most comforting tact and swiftnessof apprehension when Alice, in mentioning Dr. Ledsmar'sname, disclosed by her manner a fear that his beingsent for would create talk among the church people. He volunteered at once to act as messenger himself, and,with no better guide than her dim hints at direction,found the doctor and brought him back to the parsonage.Dr. Ledsmar expressly disclaimed to Soulsby all pretenceof professional skill, and made him understand that hewent along solely because he liked Mr. Ware, and wasinterested in him, and in any case would probably be ofas much use as the wisest of strange physicians--a viewwhich the little revivalist received with comprehendingnods of tacit acquiescence.  Ledsmar came, and was takenup to the sick-room. He sat on the bedside and talkedwith Theron awhile, and then went downstairs again. To Alice's anxious inquiries, he replied that it seemedto him merely a case of over-work and over-worry, aboutwhich there was not the slightest occasion for alarm."But he says the strangest things," the wife put in. "He has been quite delirious at times.""That means only that his brain is taking a rest as wellas his body," remarked Ledsmar.  "That is Nature's wayof securing an equilibrium of repose--of recuperation. He will come out of it with his mind all the fresherand clearer.""I don't believe he knows shucks!" was Alice's commentwhen she closed the street door upon Dr. Ledsmar. "Anybody could have come in and looked at a sick manand said, 'Leave him alone.'  You expect something morefrom a doctor.  It's his business to say what to do. And I suppose he'll charge two dollars for just telling methat my husband was resting!""No," said Brother Soulsby, "he said he never practised,and that he would come only as a friend.""Well, it isn't my idea of a friend--not to prescribea single thing," protested Alice.Yet it seemed that no prescription was needed, after all. The next morning Theron woke to find himself feelingquite restored in spirits and nerves.  He sat up in bed,and after an instant of weakly giddiness, recognized thathe was all right again.  Greatly pleased, he got up,and proceeded to dress himself.  There were little recurringhints of faintness and vertigo, while he was shaving,but he had the sense to refer these to the fact that hewas very, very hungry.  He went downstairs, and smiledwith the pleased pride of a child at the surprise which hisappearance at the door created.  Alice and the Soulsbyswere at breakfast.  He joined them, and ate voraciously,declaring that it was worth a month's illness to have thingstaste so good once more."You still look white as a sheet," said Alice, warningly. "If I were you, I'd be careful in my diet for a spell yet."For answer, Theron let Sister Soulsby help him againto ham and eggs.  He talked exclusively to Sister Soulsby,or rather invited her by his manner to talk to him,and listened and watched her with indolent content. There was a sort of happy and purified languor in his physicaland mental being, which needed and appreciated just this--to sit next a bright and attractive woman at a good breakfast,and be ministered to by her sprightly conversation,by the flash of her informing and inspiring eyes,and the nameless sense of support and repose which hernear proximity exhaled.  He felt himself figurativelyleaning against Sister Soulsby's buoyant personality,and resting.Brother Soulsby, like the intelligent creature he was,ate his breakfast in peace; but Alice would interposeremarks from time to time.  Theron was conscious of acertain annoyance at this, and knew that he was showingit by an exaggerated display of interest in everythingSister Soulsby said, and persisted in it.  There trembledin the background of his thoughts ever and again therecollection of a grievance against his wife--an offencewhich she had committed--but he put it aside as somethingto be grappled and dealt with when he felt again liketaking up the serious and disagreeable things of life. For the moment, he desired only to be amused by Sister Soulsby. Her casual mention of the fact that she and her husbandwere taking their departure that very day, appealed to himas an added reason for devoting his entire attention to her."You mustn't forget that famous talking-to you threatened me with--that 'regular hoeing-over,' you know," he reminded her,when he found himself alone with her after breakfast. He smiled as he spoke, in frank enjoyment of the prospect.Sister Soulsby nodded, and aided with a roll of her eyesthe effect of mock-menace in her uplifted forefinger. "Oh, never fear," she cried.  "You'll catch it hot and strong. But that'll keep till afternoon.  Tell me, do you feelstrong enough to go in next door and attend the trustees'meeting this forenoon?  It's rather important that youshould be there, if you can spur yourself up to it. By the way, you haven't asked what happened at the QuarterlyConference yesterday."Theron sighed, and made a little grimace of repugnance. "If you knew how little I cared!" he said.  "I did hopeyou'd forget all about mentioning that--and everythingelse connected with--the next door.  You talk so much moreinterestingly about other things.""Here's gratitude for you!" exclaimed Sister Soulsby,with a gay simulation of despair.  "Why, man alive,do you know what I've done for you?  I got around onthe Presiding Elder's blind side, I captured old Pierce,I wound Winch right around my little finger, I workedtwo or three of the class-leaders--all on your account. The result was you went through as if you'd had your earspinned back, and been greased all over.  You've got anextra hundred dollars added to your salary; do you hear? On the sixth question of the order of business the Elder ruledthat the recommendation of the last conference's estimatingcommittee could be revised (between ourselves he was wrong,but that doesn't matter) , and so you're in clover. And very friendly things were said about you, too.""It was very kind of you," said Theron.  "I am reallyextremely grateful to you."  He shook her by the handto make up for what he realized to be a lack of fervorin his tones."Well, then," Sister Soulsby replied, "you pullyourself together, and take your place as chairmanof the trustees' meeting, and see to it that,whatever comes up, you side with old Pierce and Winch.""Oh, THEY'RE my friends now, are they?" asked Theron,with a faint play of irony about his lips."Yes, that's your ticket this election," she answered briskly,"and mind you vote it straight.  Don't bother aboutreasons now.  Just take it from me, as the song says,'that things have changed since Willie died.'  That's all. And then come back here, and this afternoon we'll havea good old-fashioned jaw."The Rev. Mr. Ware, walking with ostentatious feebleness,and forcing a conventional smile upon his wan face,duly made his unexpected appearance at the trustees'meeting in one of the smaller classrooms.  He received theircongratulations gravely, and shook hands with all three. It required an effort to do this impartially, because,upon sight of Levi Gorringe, there rose up suddenlywithin him an emotion of fierce dislike and enmity. In some enigmatic way his thoughts had kept themselvesaway from Gorringe ever since Sunday evening.  Now theyconcentrated with furious energy and swiftness upon him. Theron seemed able in a flash of time to coordinatemany recollections of Gorringe--the early liking Alicehad professed for him, the mystery of those purchasedplants in her garden, the story of the girl he hadlost in church, his offer to lend him money, the wayin which he had sat beside Alice at the love-feastand followed her to the altar-rail in the evening. These raced abreast through the young minister's brain,yet with each its own image, and its relation to the othersclearly defined.He found the nerve, all the same, to take this third trusteeby the hand, and to thank him for his congratulations,and even to say, with a surface smile of welcome,"It is BROTHER Gorringe, now, I remember."The work before the meeting was chiefly of a routine kind. In most places this would have been transacted by the stewards;but in Octavius these minor officials had degeneratedinto mere ceremonial abstractions, who humbly ratified,or by arrangement anticipated, the will of the powerful,mortgage-owning trustees.  Theron sat languidly atthe head of the table while these common-place matterspassed in their course, noting the intonations ofGorringe's voice as he read from his secretary's book,and finding his ear displeased by them.  No issue aroseupon any of these trivial affairs, and the minister,feeling faint and weary in the heat, wondered why SisterSoulsby had insisted on his coming.All at once he sat up straight, with an instinctive warningin his mind that here was the thing.  Gorringe had taken upthe subject of the "debt-raising" evening, and read out itsessentials as they had been embodied in a report of the stewards. The gross sum obtained, in cash and promises, was $1,860.The stewards had collected of this a trifle less than half,but hoped to get it all in during the ensuing quarter. There were, also, the bill of Mr. and Mrs. Soulsby for$150, and the increases of $100 in the pastor's salaryand $25 in the apportioned contribution of the chargetoward the Presiding Elder's maintenance, the two latteritems of which the Quarterly Conference had sanctioned."I want to hear the names of the subscribers and theiramounts read out," put in Brother Pierce.When this was done, it became apparent that much more thanhalf of the entire amount had been offered by two men. Levi Gorringe's $450 and Erastus Winch's $425 left only$985 to be divided up among some seventy or eighty othermembers of the congregation.Brother Pierce speedily stopped the reading of thesesubordinate names.  "They're of no concern whatever,"he said, despite the fact that his own might have beenreached in time.  "Those first names are what I wasgetting at.  Have those two first amounts, the big ones,be'n paid?""One has--the other not," replied Gorringe."PRE-cisely," remarked the senior trustee.  "And I'm goin'to move that it needn't be paid, either.  When Brother Winch,here, began hollerin' out those extra twenty-fives and fifties,that evening, it was under a complete misapprehension. He'd be'n on the Cheese Board that same Monday afternoon,and he'd done what he thought was a mighty big strokeof business, and he felt liberal according.  I knowjust what that feelin' is myself.  If I'd be'n makin'a mint o' money, instead o' losin' all the while, as I do,I'd 'a' done just the same.  But the next day, lo, and behold,Brother Winch found that it was all a mistake--he hadn'tmade a single penny.""Fact is, I lost by the whole transaction," put inErastus Winch, defiantly."Just so," Brother Pierce went on.  "He lost money. You have his own word for it.  Well, then, I say it wouldbe a burning shame for us to consent to touch one pennyof what he offered to give, in the fullness of his heart,while he was laborin' under that delusion.  And I move hebe not asked for it.  We've got quite as much as we need,without it.  I put my motion.""That is, YOU don't put it," suggested Winch, correctingly. "You move it, and Brother Ware, whom we're all so gladto see able to come and preside--he'll put it."There was a moment's silence.  "You've heard the motion,"said Theron, tentatively, and then paused for possible remarks. He was not going to meddle in this thing himself, and Gorringewas the only other who might have an opinion to offer. The necessities of the situation forced him to glance atthe lawyer inquiringly.  He did so, and turned his eyesaway again like a shot.  Gorringe was looking him squarelyin the face, and the look was freighted with satirical contempt.The young minister spoke between clinched teeth. "All those in favor will say aye."Brothers Pierce and Winch put up a simultaneousand confident "Aye.""No, you don't!" interposed the lawyer, with deliberate,sneering emphasis.  "I decidedly protest against Winch'svoting.  He's directly interested, and he mustn't vote. Your chairman knows that perfectly well.""Yes, I think Brother Winch ought not to vote," decided Theron,with great calmness.  He saw now what was coming,and underneath his surface composure there were sharp flutterings."Very well, then," said Gorringe.  "I vote no, and it's a tie. It rests with the chairman now to cast the deciding vote,and say whether this interesting arrangement shall gothrough or not.""Me?" said Theron, eying the lawyer with a cool self-controlwhich had come all at once to him.  "Me?  Oh, I vote Aye."CHAPTER XVII"Well, I did what you told me to do," Theron Ware remarkedto Sister Soulsby, when at last they found themselvesalone in the sitting-room after the midday meal.It had taken not a little strategic skirmishing tosecure the room to themselves for the hospitable Alice,much touched by the thought of her new friend's departurethat very evening had gladly proposed to let all the workstand over until night, and devote herself entirelyto Sister Soulsby.  When, finally, Brother Soulsbyconceived and deftly executed the coup of interestingher in the budding of roses, and then leading her offinto the garden to see with her own eyes how it was done,Theron had a sense of being left alone with a conspirator. The notion impelled him to plunge at once into the heartof their mystery."I did what you told me to do," he repeated, looking upfrom his low easy-chair to where she sat by the desk;"and I dare say you won't be surprised when I add that Ihave no respect for myself for doing it.""And yet you would go and do it right over again, eh?"the woman said, in bright, pert tones, nodding her head,and smiling at him with roguish, comprehending eyes. "Yes, that's the way we're built.  We spend our lives doingthat sort of thing.""I don't know that you would precisely grasp my meaning,"said the young minister, with a polite effort in hiswords to mask the untoward side of the suggestion. "It is a matter of conscience with me; and I am painedand shocked at myself."Sister Soulsby drummed for an absent moment with her thin,nervous fingers on the desk-top. "I guess maybe you'dbetter go and lie down again," she said gently. "You're a sick man, still, and it's no good your worryingyour head just now with things of this sort.  You'll seethem differently when you're quite yourself again.""No, no," pleaded Theron.  "Do let us have our talk out! I'm all right.  My mind is clear as a bell.  Truly, I'vereally counted on this talk with you.""But there's something else to talk about, isn't there,besides--besides your conscience?" she asked. Her eyes bent upon him a kindly pressure as she spoke,which took all possible harshness from her meaning.Theron answered the glance rather than her words. "I know that you are my friend," he said simply.Sister Soulsby straightened herself, and looked down uponhim with a new intentness.  "Well, then," she began,"let's thrash this thing out right now, and be done with it. You say it's hurt your conscience to do just one littlehundredth part of what there was to be done here. Ask yourself what you mean by that.  Mind, I'm not quarrelling,and I'm not thinking about anything except just your ownstate of mind.  You think you soiled your hands by doingwhat you did.  That is to say, you wanted ALL the dirtywork done by other people.  That's it, isn't it?""The Rev. Mr. Ware sat up, in turn, and looked doubtinglyinto his companion's face."Oh, we were going to be frank, you know," she added,with a pleasant play of mingled mirth and honest likingin her eyes."No," he said, picking his words, "my point wouldrather be that--that there ought not to have been anyof what you yourself call this--this 'dirty work.' THAT is my feeling.""Now we're getting at it," said Sister Soulsby, briskly. "My dear friend, you might just as well say that potatoesare unclean and unfit to eat because manure is putinto the ground they grow in.  Just look at the case. Your church here was running behind every year. Your people had got into a habit of putting in nickelsinstead of dimes, and letting you sweat for the difference. That's a habit, like tobacco, or biting your fingernails,or anything else.  Either you were all to come to smash here,or the people had to be shaken up, stood on their heads,broken of their habit.  It's my business--mine and Soulsby's--to do that sort of thing.  We came here and we did it--did it up brown, too.  We not only raised all the moneythe church needs, and to spare, but I took a personal shineto you, and went out of my way to fix up things for you. It isn't only the extra hundred dollars, but the wholetone of the congregation is changed toward you now. You'll see that they'll be asking to have you back here,next spring.  And you're solid with your Presiding Elder,too.  Well, now, tell me straight--is that worth while,or not?""I've told you that I am very grateful," answered theminister, "and I say it again, and I shall never be tiredof repeating it.  But--but it was the means I had in mind.""Quite so," rejoined the sister, patiently.  "If you sawthe way a hotel dinner was cooked, you wouldn't be ableto stomach it.  Did you ever see a play?  In a theatre,I mean.  I supposed not.  But you'll understand when I saythat the performance looks one way from where the audience sit,and quite a different way when you are behind the scenes. THERE you see that the trees and houses are cloth,and the moon is tissue paper, and the flying fairy is amiddle-aged woman strung up on a rope.  That doesn't provethat the play, out in front, isn't beautiful and affecting,and all that.  It only shows that everything in thisworld is produced by machinery--by organization. The trouble is that you've been let in on the stage,behind the scenes, so to speak, and you're so green--if you'll pardon me--that you want to sit down and crybecause the trees ARE cloth, and the moon IS a lantern. And I say, don't be such a goose!""I see what you mean," Theron said, with an answering smile. He added, more gravely, "All the same, the Winch businessseems to me--""Now the Winch business is my own affair," Sister Soulsbybroke in abruptly.  I take all the responsibility for that. You need know nothing about it.  You simply voted as youdid on the merits of the case as he presented them--that's all.""But--" Theron began, and then paused.  Something had occurredto him, and he knitted his brows to follow its courseof expansion in his mind.  Suddenly he raised his head. "Then you arranged with Winch to make those bogus offers--just to lead others on?" he demanded.Sister Soulsby's large eyes beamed down upon him in reply,at first in open merriment, then more soberly, till theirregard was almost pensive."Let us talk of something else," she said.  "All that ispast and gone.  It has nothing to do with you, anyway. I've got some advice to give you about keeping up thisgrip you've got on your people."The young minister had risen to his feet while she spoke. He put his hands in his pockets, and with rounded shouldersbegan slowly pacing the room.  After a turn or two he cameto the desk, and leaned against it."I doubt if it's worth while going into that," he said,in the solemn tone of one who feels that an irrevocable thingis being uttered.  She waited to hear more, apparently. "I think I shall go away--give up the ministry," he added.Sister Soulsby's eyes revealed no such shock of consternationas he, unconsciously, had looked for.  They remained quite calm;and when she spoke, they deepened, to fit her speech,with what he read to be a gaze of affectionate melancholy--one might say pity.  She shook her head slowly."No--don't let any one else hear you say that," she replied. "My poor young friend, it's no good to even think it. The real wisdom is to school yourself to move along smoothly,and not fret, and get the best of what's going.  I've knownothers who felt as you do--of course there are timeswhen every young man of brains and high notions feelsthat way--but there's no help for it.  Those who triedto get out only broke themselves.  Those who stayed in,and made the best of it--well, one of them will be a bishopin another ten years."Theron had started walking again.  "But the moral degradationof it!" he snapped out at her over his shoulder. "I'd rather earn the meanest living, at an honest trade,and be free from it.""That may all be," responded Sister Soulsby.  "But it isn'ta question of what you'd rather do.  It's what you can do. How could you earn a living?  What trade or business do yousuppose you could take up now, and get a living out of? Not one, my man, not one."Theron stopped and stared at her.  This view of hiscapabilities came upon him with the force and effectof a blow."I don't discover, myself," he began stumblingly,"that I'm so conspicuously inferior to the men I seeabout me who do make livings, and very good ones, too.""Of course you're not," she replied with easy promptness;"you're greatly the other way, or I shouldn't be taking thistrouble with you.  But you're what you are because you'rewhere you are.  The moment you try on being somewhere else,you're done for.  In all this world nobody else comes tosuch unmerciful and universal grief as the unfrocked priest."The phrase sent Theron's fancy roving.  "I know aCatholic priest," he said irrelevantly, "who doesn'tbelieve an atom in--in things.""Very likely," said Sister Soulsby.  "Most of us do. But you don't hear him talking about going and earninghis living, I'll bet!  Or if he does, he takes powerfulgood care not to go, all the same.  They've got horse-sense,those priests.  They're artists, too.  They know how toallow for the machinery behind the scenes.""But it's all so different," urged the young minister;"the same things are not expected of them.  Now I satthe other night and watched those people you got uparound the altar-rail, groaning and shouting and crying,and the others jumping up and down with excitement,and Sister Lovejoy--did you see her?--coming out of her pewand regularly waltzing in the aisle, with her eyes shut,like a whirling dervish--I positively believe it wasall that made me ill.  I couldn't stand it.  I can'tstand it now.  I won't go back to it!  Nothing shallmake me!""Oh-h, yes, you will," she rejoined soothingly. "There's nothing else to do.  Just put a good face on it,and make up your mind to get through by treading on as fewcorns as possible, and keeping your own toes well in,and you'll be surprised how easy it'll all come to be. You were speaking of the revival business.  Now that exemplifiesjust what I was saying--it's a part of our machinery. Now a church is like everything else,--it's got to have a boss,a head, an authority of some sort, that people will listento and mind.  The Catholics are different, as you say. Their church is chuck-full of authority--all the wayfrom the Pope down to the priest--and accordingly theydo as they're told.  But the Protestants--your Methodistsmost of all--they say 'No, we won't have any authority,we won't obey any boss.'  Very well, what happens? We who are responsible for running the thing, and raisingthe money and so on--we have to put on a spurt every oncein a while, and work up a general state of excitement;and while it's going, don't you see that THAT is the authority,the motive power, whatever you like to call it, by whichthings are done?  Other denominations don't need it. We do, and that's why we've got it.""But the mean dishonesty of it all!"  Theron broke forth. He moved about again, his bowed face drawn as withbodily suffering.  "The low-born tricks, the hypocrisies! I feel as if I could never so much as look at these peoplehere again without disgust.""Oh, now that's where you make your mistake,"Sister Soulsby put in placidly.  "These peopleof yours are not a whit worse than other people. They've got their good streaks and their bad streaks,just like the rest of us.  Take them by and large,they're quite on a par with other folks the whole country through.""I don't believe there's another congregation in theConference where--where this sort of thing would havebeen needed, or, I might say, tolerated," insisted Theron."Perhaps you're right," the other assented; "but that onlyshows that your people here are different from the others--not that they're worse.  You don't seem to realize: Octavius, so far as the Methodists are concerned,is twenty or thirty years behind the times.  Now that hasits advantages and its disadvantages.  The church here istough and coarse, and full of grit, like a grindstone;and it does ministers from other more niminy-piminy placesall sorts of good to come here once in a while and rubthemselves up against it.  It scours the rust and mildew offfrom their piety, and they go back singing and shouting. But of course it's had a different effect with you. You're razor-steel instead of scythe-steel, and thegrinding's been too rough and violent for you.  But yousee what I mean.  These people here really take theirprimitive Methodism seriously.  To them the professionof entire sanctification is truly a genuine thing.  Well,don't you see, when people just know that they're saved,it doesn't seem to them to matter so much what they do. They feel that ordinary rules may well be bent and twistedin the interest of people so supernaturally good as they are. That's pure human nature.  It's always been like that."Theron paused in his walk to look absently at her. "That thought," he said, in a vague, slow way, "seems tobe springing up in my path, whichever way I turn. It oppresses me, and yet it fascinates me--this ideathat the dead men have known more than we know, done morethan we do; that there is nothing new anywhere; that--""Never mind the dead men," interposed Sister Soulsby. "Just you come and sit down here.  I hate to have youstraddling about the room when I'm trying to talk to you."Theron obeyed, and as he sank into the low seat, Sister Soulsbydrew up her chair, and put her hand on his shoulder. Her gaze rested upon his with impressive steadiness."And now I want to talk seriously to you, as a friend,"she began.  "You mustn't breathe to any living soul the shadowof a hint of this nonsense about leaving the ministry. I could see how you were feeling--I saw the book you werereading the first time I entered this room--and that made melike you; only I expected to find you mixing up more worldlygumption with your Renan.  Well, perhaps I like you all thebetter for not having it--for being so delightfully fresh. At any rate, that made me sail in and straighten your affairsfor you.  And now, for God's sake, keep them straight. Just put all notions of anything else out of your head. Watch your chief men and women, and be friends with them. Keep your eye open for what they think you ought to do,and do it.  Have your own ideas as much as you like,read what you like, say 'Damn' under your breath as muchas you like, but don't let go of your job.  I've knockedabout too much, and I've seen too many promising youngfellows cut their own throats for pure moonshine,not to have a right to say that."Theron could not be insensible to the friendly hand onhis shoulder, or to the strenuous sincerity of the voicewhich thus adjured him."Well," he said vaguely, smiling up into her earnest eyes,"if we agree that it IS moonshine.""See here!" she exclaimed, with renewed animation,patting his shoulder in a brisk, automatic way, to pointthe beginnings of her confidences:  "I'll tell you something. It's about myself.  I've got a religion of my own,and it's got just one plank in it, and that is that the timeto separate the sheep from the goats is on Judgment Day,and that it can't be done a minute before."The young minister took in the thought, and turned itabout in his mind, and smiled upon it."And that brings me to what I'm going to tell you,"Sister Soulsby continued.  She leaned back in her chair,and crossed her knees so that one well-shaped andartistically shod foot poised itself close to Theron's hand. Her eyes dwelt upon his face with an engaging candor."I began life," she said, "as a girl by runningaway from a stupid home with a man that I knew wasmarried already.  After that, I supported myself for agood many years--generally, at first, on the stage. I've been a front-ranker in Amazon ballets, and I'vebeen leading lady in comic opera companies out West. I've told fortunes in one room of a mining-camp hotelwhere the biggest game of faro in the Territory wenton in another.  I've been a professional clairvoyant,and I've been a professional medium, and I've been withinone vote of being indicted by a grand jury, and the moneythat bought that vote was put up by the smartest and mostfamous train-gambler between Omaha and 'Frisco, a gentlemanwho died in his boots and took three sheriff's deputiesalong with him to Kingdom-Come. Now, that's MY record."Theron looked earnestly at her, and said nothing."And now take Soulsby," she went on.  "Of course I takeit for granted there's a good deal that he has never feltcalled upon to mention.  He hasn't what you may calla talkative temperament.  But there is also a good dealthat I do know.  He's been an actor, too, and to thisday I'd back him against Edwin Booth himself to recite'Clarence's Dream.'  And he's been a medium, and then hewas a travelling phrenologist, and for a long time hewas advance agent for a British Blondes show, and when Ifirst saw him he was lecturing on female diseases--and he had HIS little turn with a grand jury too.  In fact,he was what you may call a regular bad old rooster."Again Theron suffered the pause to lapse without comment--save for an amorphous sort of conversation which he feltto be going on between his eyes and those of Sister Soulsby."Well, then," she resumed, "so much for us apart. Now about us together.  We liked each other from the start. We compared notes, and we found that we had both souredon living by fakes, and that we were tired of the road,and wanted to settle down and be respectable in our old age. We had a little money--enough to see us through a year or two. Soulsby had always hungered and longed to own a gardenand raise flowers, and had never been able to stay longenough in one place to see so much as a bean-pod ripen. So we took a little place in a quiet country villagedown on the Southern Tier, and he planted everythingthree deep all over the place, and I bought a roomfulof cheap good books, and we started in.  We took to itlike ducks to water for a while, and I don't say that wecouldn't have stood it out, just doing nothing, to thisvery day; but as luck would have it, during the firstwinter there was a revival at the local Methodist church,and we went every evening--at first just to kill time,and then because we found we liked the noise and excitementand general racket of the thing.  After it was allover each of us found that the other had been mightynear going up to the rail and joining the mourners. And another thing had occurred to each of us, too--that is,what tremendous improvements there were possible in theway that amateur revivalist worked up his business. This stuck in our crops, and we figured on it all throughthe winter.--Well, to make a long story short, we finally wentinto the thing ourselves.""Tell me one thing," interposed Theron.  "I'm anxiousto understand it all as we go along.  Were you and heat any time sincerely converted?--that is, I mean,genuinely convicted of sin and conscious of--you knowwhat I mean!""Oh, bless you, yes," responded Sister Soulsby. "Not only once--dozens of times--I may say every time. We couldn't do good work if we weren't. But that's a matterof temperament--of emotions.""Precisely.  That was what I was getting at," explained Theron."Well, then, hear what I was getting at," she went on. "You were talking very loudly here about frauds andhypocrisies and so on, a few minutes ago.  Now I saythat Soulsby and I do good, and that we're good fellows. Now take him, for example.  There isn't a better citizenin all Chemung County than he is, or a kindlier neighbor,or a better or more charitable man.  I've known him to stayup a whole winter's night in a poor Irishman's stinkingand freezing stable, trying to save his cart-horse for him,that had been seized with some sort of fit.  The man'swhole livelihood, and his family's, was in that horse;and when it died, Soulsby bought him another, and nevertold even ME about it.  Now that I call real piety,if you like.""So do I," put in Theron, cordially."And this question of fraud," pursued his companion,--"look at it in this light.  You heard us sing.  Well, now,I was a singer, of course, but Soulsby hardly knew onenote from another.  I taught him to sing, and he wentat it patiently and diligently, like a little man. And I invented that scheme of finding tunes which the crowddidn't know, and so couldn't break in on and smother. I simply took Chopin--he is full of sixths, you know--and I got all sorts of melodies out of his waltzes andmazurkas and nocturnes and so on, and I trained Soulsbyjust to sing those sixths so as to make the harmony,and there you are.  He couldn't sing by himself any more thana crow, but he's got those sixths of his down to a hair. Now that's machinery, management, organization.  We takethese tunes, written by a devil-may-care Pole who was livingwith George Sand openly at the time, and pass 'em offon the brethren for hymns.  It's a fraud, yes; but it'sa good fraud.  So they are all good frauds.  I say franklythat I'm glad that the change and the chance came to helpSoulsby and me to be good frauds.""And the point is that I'm to be a good fraud, too,"commented the young minister.She had risen, and he got to his feet as well. He instinctively sought for her hand, and pressed it warmly,and held it in both his, with an exuberance of gratitudeand liking in his manner.Sister Soulsby danced her eyes at him with a saucy littleshake of the head.  "I'm afraid you'll never make a reallyGOOD fraud," she said.  "You haven't got it in you. Your intentions are all right, but your execution ishopelessly clumsy.  I came up to your bedroom there twicewhile you were sick, just to say 'howdy,' and you keptyour eyes shut, and all the while a blind horse couldhave told that you were wide awake.""I must have thought it was my wife," said Theron.PART IIICHAPTER XVIIIWhen the lingering dusk finally settled down upon thislong summer evening, the train bearing the Soulsbyshomeward was already some score of miles on its way,and the Methodists of Octavius had nearly finished theirweekly prayer-meeting.After the stirring events of the revival, it was onlyto be expected that this routine, home-made affairshould suffer from a reaction.  The attendance was largerthan usual, perhaps, but the proceedings were spiritlessand tame.  Neither the pastor nor his wife was presentat the beginning, and the class-leader upon whom controldevolved made but feeble headway against the spell ofinertia which the hot night-air laid upon the gathering. Long pauses intervened between the perfunctorypraise-offerings and supplications, and the hymns weariedlyraised from time to time fell again in languor by the wayside.Alice came in just as people were beginning to hopethat some one would start the Doxology, and bring mattersto a close.  Her appearance apparently suggested thisto the class-leader, for in a few moments the meetinghad been dismissed, and some of the members, on theirway out, were shaking hands with their minister's wife,and expressing the polite hope that he was better. The worried look in her face, and the obvious stainsof recent tears upon her cheeks imparted an added pointand fervor to these inquiries, but she replied to all intones of studied tranquillity that, although not feelingwell enough to attend prayer-meeting, Brother Ware wassteadily recovering strength, and confidently expectedto be in complete health by Sunday.  They left her,and could hardly wait to get into the vestibule to askone another in whispers what on earth she could have beencrying about.Meanwhile Brother Ware improved his convalescent stateby pacing slowly up and down under the elms on the sideof the street opposite the Catholic church.  There wereno houses here for a block and more; the sidewalk wasbroken in many places, so that passers-by avoided it;the overhanging boughs shrouded it all in obscurity;it was preeminently a place to be alone in.Theron had driven to the depot with his guests an hour before,and after a period of pleasant waiting on the platform,had said good-bye to them as the train moved away. Then he turned to Alice, who had also accompanied themin the carriage, and was conscious of a certain annoyanceat her having come.  That long familiar talk of theafternoon had given him the feeling that he was entitledto bid farewell to Sister Soulsby--to both the Soulsbys--by himself."I am afraid folks will think it strange--neither of usattending the prayer-meeting," he said, with a suggestionof reproof in his tone, as they left the station-yard."If we get back in time, I'll run in for a minute,"answered Alice, with docility."No--no," he broke in.  "I'm not equal to walking so fast. You run on ahead, and explain matters, and I will comealong slowly.""The hack we came in is still there in the yard,"the wife suggested.  "We could drive home in that. I don't believe it would cost more than a quarter--and if you're feeling badly--""But I am NOT feeling badly," Theron replied,with frank impatience.  "Only I feel--I feelthat being alone with my thoughts would be good for me.""Oh, certainly--by all means!"  Alice had said, and turnedsharply on her heel.Being alone with these thoughts, Theron strolled aimlessly about,and did not think at all.  The shadows gathered, and firefliesbegan to disclose their tiny gleams among the shrubberyin the gardens.  A lamp-lighter came along, and passed him,leaving in his wake a straggling double line of lights,glowing radiantly against the black-green of the trees. This recalled to Theron that he had heard that the towncouncil lit the street lamps by the almanac, and economizedgas when moonshine was due.  The idea struck him as droll,and he dwelt upon it in various aspects, smiling at someof its comic possibilities.  Looking up in the middleof one of these whimsical conceits, the sportive impulsedied suddenly within him.  He realized that it was dark,and that the massive black bulk reared against the skyon the other side of the road was the Catholic church. The other fact, that he had been there walking to andfro for some time, was borne in upon him more slowly. He turned, and resumed the pacing up and down with astill more leisurely step, musing upon the curious wayin which people's minds all unconsciously follow aboutwhere instincts and intuitions lead.No doubt it was what Sister Soulsby had said aboutCatholics which had insensibly guided his purposelessstroll in this direction.  What a woman that was! Somehow the purport of her talk--striking, and evenastonishing as he had found it--did not stand out so clearlyin his memory as did the image of the woman herself. She must have been extremely pretty once.  For thatmatter she still was a most attractive-looking woman. It had been a genuine pleasure to have her in the house--to see her intelligent responsive face at the table--to have it in one's power to make drafts at will uponthe fund of sympathy and appreciation, of facile mirthand ready tenderness in those big eyes of hers.  He likedthat phrase she had used about herself--"a good fellow." It seemed to fit her to a "t."  And Soulsby was a goodfellow too.  All at once it occurred to him to wonder whetherthey were married or not.But really that was no affair of his, he reflected. A citizen of the intellectual world should be abovesoiling his thoughts with mean curiosities of that sort,and he drove the impertinent query down again under thesurface of his mind.  He refused to tolerate, as well,sundry vagrant imaginings which rose to cluster about andliteralize the romance of her youth which Sister Soulsbyhad so frankly outlined.  He would think upon nothingbut her as he knew her,--the kindly, quick-witted, capableand charming woman who had made such a brilliant breakin the monotony of life at that dull parsonage of his. The only genuine happiness in life must consist in havingbright, smart, attractive women like that always about.The lights were visible now in the upper rooms of Father Forbes'pastorate across the way.  Theron paused for a second toconsider whether he wanted to go over and call on the priest. He decided that mentally he was too fagged and flat for suchan undertaking.  He needed another sort of companionship--some restful, soothing human contact, which should exactnothing from him in return, but just take charge of him,with soft, wise words and pleasant plays of fancy,and jokes and--and--something of the general effect createdby Sister Soulsby's eyes.  The thought expanded itself,and he saw that he had never realized before--nay,never dreamt before--what a mighty part the comradeshipof talented, sweet-natured and beautiful women mustplay in the development of genius, the achievementof lofty aims, out in the great world of great men. To know such women--ah, that would never fall to his hapless lot.The priest's lamps blinked at him through the trees. He remembered that priests were supposed to be even furtherremoved from the possibilities of such contact than hewas himself.  His memory reverted to that horribly ugly oldwoman whom Father Forbes had spoken of as his housekeeper. Life under the same roof with such a hag must be evenworse than--worse than--The young minister did not finish the comparison, even in theprivacy of his inner soul.  He stood instead staring overat the pastorate, in a kind of stupor of arrested thought. The figure of a woman passed in view at the nearest window--a tall figure with pale summer clothes of some sort,and a broad summer hat--a flitting effect of diaphanousshadow between him and the light which streamed fromthe casement.Theron felt a little shiver run over him, as if the delicatecoolness of the changing night-air had got into his blood. The window was open, and his strained hearing thoughtit caught the sound of faint laughter.  He continuedto gaze at the place where the vision had appeared,the while a novel and strange perception unfolded itselfupon his mind.He had come there in the hope of encountering Celia Madden.Now that he looked this fact in the face, there was nothingremarkable about it.  In truth, it was simplicity itself. He was still a sick man, weak in body and dejected in spirits. The thought of how unhappy and unstrung he was came to himnow with an insistent pathos that brought tears to his eyes. He was only obeying the universal law of nature--the lawwhich prompts the pallid spindling sprout of the potatoin the cellar to strive feebly toward the light.From where he stood in the darkness he stretchedout his hands in the direction of that open window. The gesture was his confession to the overhanging boughs,to the soft night-breeze, to the stars above--and itbore back to him something of the confessional's vagueand wistful solace.  He seemed already to have drawndown into his soul a taste of the refreshment it craved. He sighed deeply, and the hot moisture smarted again uponhis eyelids, but this time not all in grief.  With histender compassion for himself there mingled now a flutterof buoyant prescience, of exquisite expectancy.Fate walked abroad this summer night.  The street doorof the pastorate opened, and in the flood of illuminationwhich spread suddenly forth over the steps and sidewalk,Theron saw again the tall form, with the indefinitelylight-hued flowing garments and the wide straw hat. He heard a tuneful woman's voice call out "Good-night, Maggie,"and caught no response save the abrupt closing of the door,which turned everything black again with a bang. He listened acutely for another instant, and then with long,noiseless strides made his way down his deserted sideof the street.  He moderated his pace as he turnedto cross the road at the corner, and then, still maskedby the trees, halted altogether, in a momentary tumultof apprehension.  No--yes--it was all right.  The girlsauntered out from the total darkness into the dim starlightof the open corner."Why, bless me, is that you, Miss Madden?"Celia seemed to discern readily enough, through theaccents of surprise, the identity of the tall, slim manwho addressed her from the shadows."Good-evening, Mr. Ware," she said, with prompt affability. "I'm so glad to find you out again.  We heard you were ill.""I have been very ill," responded Theron, as theyshook hands and walked on together.  He added, with aquaver in his voice, "I am still far from strong. I really ought not to be out at all.  But--but thelonging for--for--well, I COULDN'T stay in any longer. Even if it kills me, I shall be glad I came out tonight.""Oh, we won't talk of killing," said Celia.  "I don'tbelieve in illnesses myself""But you believe in collapses of the nerves," put in Theron,with gentle sadness, "in moral and spiritual and mentalbreakdowns.  I remember how I was touched by the way youtold me YOU suffered from them.  I had to take what you saidthen for granted.  I had had no experience of it myself. But now I know what it is."  He drew a long, pathetic sigh. "Oh, DON'T I know what it is!" he repeated gloomily."Come, my friend, cheer up," Celia purred at him,in soothing tones.  He felt that there was a deliciouslyfeminine and sisterly intuition in her speech,and in the helpful, nurse-like way in which she drewhis arm through hers.  He leaned upon this support,and was glad of it in every fibre of his being."Do you remember?  You promised--that last time I saw you--to play for me," he reminded her.  They were passingthe little covered postern door at the side and rear ofthe church as he spoke, and he made a half halt to pointthe coincidence."Oh, there's no one to blow the organ," she said,divining his suggestion.  "And I haven't the key--and, besides, the organ is too heavy and severefor an invalid.  It would overwhelm you tonight.""Not as you would know how to play it for me,"urged Theron, pensively.  "I feel as if good music to-nightwould make me well again.  I am really very ill and weak--and unhappy!"The girl seemed moved by the despairing note in his voice. She invited him by a sympathetic gesture to lean even moredirectly on her arm."Come home with me, and I'll play Chopin to you," she said,in compassionate friendliness.  "He is the real medicinefor bruised and wounded nerves.  You shall have as muchof him as you like."The idea thus unexpectedly thrown forth spread itselflike some vast and inexpressibly alluring vista beforeTheron's imagination.  The spice of adventure in itfascinated his mind as well, but for a shrinking momentthe flesh was weak."I'm afraid your people would--would think it strange,"he faltered--and began also to recall that he had somepeople of his own who would be even more amazed."Nonsense," said Celia, in fine, bold confidence, and witha reassuring pressure on his arm.  "I allow none of mypeople to question what I do.  They never dream of sucha preposterous thing.  Besides, you will see none of them. Mrs. Madden is at the seaside, and my father and brotherhave their own part of the house.  I shan't listen fora minute to your not coming.  Come, I'm your doctor. I'm to make you well again."There was further conversation, and Theron more or lessknew that he was bearing a part in it, but his wholemind seemed concentrated, in a sort of delicious terror,upon the wonderful experience to which every footstepbrought him nearer.  His magnetized fancy pictured a greatspacious parlor, such as a mansion like the Maddens'would of course contain, and there would be a grand piano,and lace curtains, and paintings in gold frames,and a chandelier, and velvet easy-chairs, and he would sitin one of these, surrounded by all the luxury of the rich,while Celia played to him.  There would be servants about,he presumed, and very likely they would recognize him,and of course they would talk about it to Tom, Dick andHarry afterward.  But he said to himself defiantly that hedidn't care.He withdrew his arm from hers as they came upon thewell-lighted main street.  He passed no one who seemedto know him.  Presently they came to the Madden place,and Celia, without waiting for the gravelled walk,struck obliquely across the lawn.  Theron, who had beenlagging behind with a certain circumspection, steppedbriskly to her side now.  Their progress over the soft,close-cropped turf in the dark together, with the scentof lilies and perfumed shrubs heavy on the night air,and the majestic bulk of the big silent house risingamong the trees before them, gave him a thrilling senseof the glory of individual freedom."I feel a new man already," he declared, as they swungalong on the grass.  He breathed a long sigh of content,and drew nearer, so that their shoulders touched nowand again as they walked.  In a minute more they werestanding on the doorstep, and Theron heard the significantjingle of a bunch of keys which his companion was gropingfor in her elusive pocket.  He was conscious of tremblinga little at the sound.It seemed that, unlike other people, the Maddens didnot have their parlor on the ground-floor, opening offthe front hall.  Theron stood in the complete darknessof this hall, till Celia had lit one of several candleswhich were in their hand-sticks on a sort of sideboardnext the hat-rack. She beckoned him with a gestureof her head, and he followed her up a broad staircase,magnificent in its structural appointments of inlaid woods,and carpeted with what to his feet felt like down. The tiny light which his guide bore before her half revealed,as they passed in their ascent, tall lengths of tapestry,and the dull glint of armor and brazen discs in shadowedniches on the nearer wall.  Over the stair-rail lay an openspace of such stately dimensions, bounded by terminal linesof decoration so distant in the faint candle-flicker,that the young country minister could think of no wordbut "palatial" to fit it all.At the head of the flight, Celia led the way along a widecorridor to where it ended.  Here, stretched from side to side,and suspended from broad hoops of a copper-like metal,was a thick curtain, of a uniform color which Theron atfirst thought was green, and then decided must be blue. She pushed its heavy folds aside, and unlocked another door. He passed under the curtain behind her, and closedthe door.The room into which he had made his way was not at allafter the fashion of any parlor he had ever seen.  In theobscure light it was difficult to tell what it resembled. He made out what he took to be a painter's easel,standing forth independently in the centre of things. There were rows of books on rude, low shelves. Against one of the two windows was a big, flat writing-table--or was it a drawing-table?--littered with papers. Under the other window was a carpenter's bench, with a largemound of something at one end covered with a white cloth. On a table behind the easel rose a tall mechanical contrivance,the chief feature of which was a thick upright spiral screw. The floor was of bare wood stained brown.  The walls of thisqueer room had photographs and pictures, taken apparentlyfrom illustrated papers, pinned up at random for theironly ornament.Celia had lighted three or four other candles on the mantel. She caught the dumfounded expression with which herguest was surveying his surroundings, and gave a merrylittle laugh."This is my workshop," she explained.  "I keep thisfor the things I do badly--things I fool with.  If I wantto paint, or model in clay, or bind books, or write,or draw, or turn on the lathe, or do some carpentering,here's where I do it.  All the things that make a messwhich has to be cleaned up--they are kept out here--because this is as far as the servants are allowedto come."She unlocked still another door as she spoke--a doorwhich was also concealed behind a curtain."Now," she said, holding up the candle so that its reddishflare rounded with warmth the creamy fulness of her chinand throat, and glowed upon her hair in a flame of orangelight--"now I will show you what is my very own."CHAPTER XIXTheron Ware looked about him with frankly undisguised astonishment.The room in which he found himself was so dark at firstthat it yielded little to the eye, and that little seemedaltogether beyond his comprehension.  His gaze helplesslyfollowed Celia and her candle about as she busied herselfin the work of illumination.  When she had finished,and pinched out the taper, there were seven lights inthe apartment--lights beaming softly through half-opaquealternating rectangles of blue and yellow glass.  They mustbe set in some sort of lanterns around against the wall,he thought, but the shape of these he could hardly make out.Gradually his sight adapted itself to this subdued light,and he began to see other things.  These queer lampswere placed, apparently, so as to shed a special radianceupon some statues which stood in the corners of the chamber,and upon some pictures which were embedded in the walls. Theron noted that the statues, the marble of which lostits aggressive whiteness under the tinted lights,were mostly of naked men and women; the pictures, four orfive in number, were all variations of a single theme--the Virgin Mary and the Child.A less untutored vision than his would have caughtmore swiftly the scheme of color and line in whichthese works of art bore their share.  The walls ofthe room were in part of flat upright wooden columns,terminating high above in simple capitals, and they wereall painted in pale amber and straw and primrose hues,irregularly wavering here and there toward suggestionsof white.  Between these pilasters were broader panels ofstamped leather, in gently varying shades of peacock blue. These contrasted colors vaguely interwove and mingledin what he could see of the shadowed ceiling far above. They were repeated in the draperies and huge cushionsand pillows of the low, wide divan which ran aboutthree sides of the room.  Even the floor, where itrevealed itself among the scattered rugs, was laid in amosaic pattern of matched woods, which, like the rugs,gave back these same shifting blues and uncertain yellows.The fourth side of the apartment was broken in outlineat one end by the door through which they had entered,and at the other by a broad, square opening,hung with looped-back curtains of a thin silken stuff. Between the two apertures rose against the wall whatTheron took at first glance to be an altar.  There werepyramidal rows of tall candles here on either side,each masked with a little silken hood; below, in the centre,a shelf-like projection supported what seemed a massive,carved casket, and in the beautiful intricacies of this,and the receding canopy of delicate ornamentationwhich depended above it, the dominant color was white,deepening away in its shadows, by tenderly minute gradations,to the tints which ruled the rest of the room.Celia lighted some of the high, thick tapers in these candelabra,and opened the top of the casket.  Theron saw withsurprise that she had uncovered the keyboard of a piano. He viewed with much greater amazement her next proceeding--which was to put a cigarette between her lips, and,bending over one of the candles with it for an instant,turn to him with a filmy, opalescent veil of smoke above her head."Make yourself comfortable anywhere," she said, with agesture which comprehended all the divans and pillowsin the place.  "Will you smoke?""I have never tried since I was a little boy," said Theron,"but I think I could.  If you don't mind, I should liketo see."Lounging at his ease on the oriental couch, Theronexperimented cautiously upon the unaccustomed tobacco,and looked at Celia with what he felt to be the confidentquiet of a man of the world.  She had thrown asideher hat, and in doing so had half released some of theheavy strands of hair coiled at the back of her head. His glance instinctively rested upon this wonderful hairof hers.  There was no mistaking the sudden fascinationits disorder had for his eye.She stood before him with the cigarette poised daintilybetween thumb and finger of a shapely hand, and smiledcomprehendingly down on her guest."I suffered the horrors of the damned with this hairof mine when I was a child," she said.  "I daresayall children have a taste for persecuting red-heads;but it's a specialty with Irish children.  They get holdsomehow of an ancient national superstition, or legend,that red hair was brought into Ireland by the Danes. It's been a term of reproach with us since Brian Boru's timeto call a child a Dane.  I used to be pursued and baitedwith it every day of my life, until the one dream of myambition was to get old enough to be a Sister of Charity,so that I might hide my hair under one of their bigbeastly white linen caps.  I've got rather away from thatideal since, I'm afraid," she added, with a droll downwardcurl of her lip."Your hair is very beautiful," said Theron, in the calmtone of a connoisseur."I like it myself," Celia admitted, and blew a littlesmoke-ring toward him.  "I've made this whole roomto match it.  The colors, I mean," she explained,in deference to his uplifted brows.  "Between us, we makeup what Whistler would call a symphony.  That reminds me--I was going to play for you.  Let me finish the cigarette first."Theron felt grateful for her reticence about the factthat he had laid his own aside.  "I have never seena room at all like this," he remarked.  You are right;it does fit you perfectly."She nodded her sense of his appreciation.  "It is whatI like," she said.  "It expresses ME.  I will not haveanything about me--or anybody either--that I don't like. I suppose if an old Greek could see it, it would makehim sick, but it represents what I mean by being a Greek. It is as near as an Irishman can get to it.""I remember your puzzling me by saying that you werea Greek."Celia laughed, and tossed the cigarette-end away. "I'd puzzle you more, I'm afraid, if I tried to explainto you what I really meant by it.  I divide peopleup into two classes, you know--Greeks and Jews. Once you get hold of that principle, all other divisionsand classifications, such as by race or languageor nationality, seem pure foolishness.  It is the onlytrue division there is.  It is just as true among negroesor wild Indians who never heard of Greece or Jerusalem,as it is among white folks.  That is the beauty of it. It works everywhere, always.""Try it on me," urged Theron, with a twinkling eye. "Which am I?""Both," said the girl, with a merry nod of the head. "But now I'll play.  I told you you were to hear Chopin. I prescribe him for you.  He is the Greekiest of the Greeks. THERE was a nation where all the people were artists,where everybody was an intellectual aristocrat, where thePhilistine was as unknown, as extinct, as the dodo. Chopin might have written his music for them.""I am interested in Shopang," put in Theron, suddenly recallingSister Soulsby's confidences as to the source of her tunes. "He lived with--what's his name--George something. We were speaking about him only this afternoon."Celia looked down into her visitor's face at firstinquiringly, then with a latent grin about her lips. "Yes--George something," she said, in a tone which mystified him.The Rev. Mr. Ware was sitting up, a minute afterward,in a ferment of awakened consciousness that he hadnever heard the piano played before.  After a little,he noiselessly rearranged the cushions, and settled himselfagain in a recumbent posture.  It was beyond his strengthto follow that first impulse, and keep his mind abreastwith what his ears took in.  He sighed and lay back,and surrendered his senses to the mere unthinking charmof it all.It was the Fourth Prelude that was singing in the airabout him--a simple, plaintive strain wandering at willover a surface of steady rhythmic movement underneath,always creeping upward through mysteries of sweetness,always sinking again in cadences of semi-tones. Withonly a moment's pause, there came the Seventh Waltz--a rich, bold confusion which yet was not confused. Theron's ears dwelt with eager delight upon the chasingmedley of swift, tinkling sounds, but it left histhoughts free.From where he reclined, he turned his head to scrutinize,one by one, the statues in the corners.  No doubt theywere beautiful--for this was a department in which hewas all humility--and one of them, the figure of abroad-browed, stately, though thick-waisted woman,bending slightly forward and with both arms broken off,was decently robed from the hips downward.  The others werenot robed at all.  Theron stared at them with the erratic,rippling jangle of the waltz in his ears, and felt that hepossessed a new and disturbing conception of what femaleemancipation meant in these later days.  Roving alongthe wall, his glance rested again upon the largest of theVirgin pictures--a full-length figure in sweeping draperies,its radiant, aureoled head upturned in rapt adoration,its feet resting on a crescent moon which shone forthin bluish silver through festooned clouds of cherubs. The incongruity between the unashamed statues and thisserene incarnation of holy womanhood jarred upon him forthe instant.  Then his mind went to the piano.Without a break the waltz had slowed and expanded intoa passage of what might be church music, an exquisitelymodulated and gently solemn chant, through which a soft,lingering song roved capriciously, forcing the listenerto wonder where it was coming out, even while it caressedand soothed to repose.He looked from the Madonna to Celia.  Beyond the carelesslydrooping braids and coils of hair which blazed betweenthe candles, he could see the outline of her browand cheek, the noble contour of her lifted chin and full,modelled throat, all pink as the most delicate rose leafis pink, against the cool lights of the altar-like wall. The sight convicted him in the court of his own soulas a prurient and mean-minded rustic.  In the presenceof such a face, of such music, there ceased to be any suchthing as nudity, and statues no more needed clothes thandid those slow, deep, magnificent chords which came now,gravely accumulating their spell upon him."It is all singing!" the player called out to him overher shoulder, in a minute of rest.  "That is what Chopin does--he sings!"She began, with an effect of thinking of something else,the Sixth Nocturne, and Theron at first thought she was notplaying anything in particular, so deliberately, haltingly,did the chain of charm unwind itself into sequence. Then it came closer to him than the others had done. The dreamy, wistful, meditative beauty of it all at onceoppressed and inspired him.  He saw Celia's shoulders swayunder the impulse of the RUBATO license--the privilegeto invest each measure with the stress of the whole,to loiter, to weep, to run and laugh at will--and themusic she made spoke to him as with a human voice. There was the wooing sense of roses and moonlight,of perfumes, white skins, alluring languorous eyes,and then--"You know this part, of course," he heard her say.On the instant they had stepped from the dark, scented,starlit garden, where the nightingale sang, into a great cathedral. A sombre and lofty anthem arose, and filled the placewith the splendor of such dignified pomp of harmony andsuch suggestions of measureless choral power and authoritythat Theron sat abruptly up, then was drawn resistlesslyto his feet.  He stood motionless in the strange room,feeling most of all that one should kneel to hear such music."This you'll know too--the funeral march from the SecondSonata," she was saying, before he realized that the endof the other had come.  He sank upon the divan again,bending forward and clasping his hands tight around his knees. His heart beat furiously as he listened to the weird,mediaeval processional, with its wild, clashing chordsheld down in the bondage of an orderly sadness. There was a propelling motion in the thing--a sense of beingborne bodily along--which affected him like dizziness. He breathed hard through the robust portions of stern,vigorous noise, and rocked himself to and fro when, as rosymorn breaks upon a storm-swept night, the drums are silencedfor the sweet, comforting strain of solitary melody. The clanging minor harmonies into which the march relapsescame to their abrupt end.  Theron rose once more,and moved with a hesitating step to the piano."I want to rest a little," he said, with his handon her shoulder."Whew! so do I," exclaimed Celia, letting her hands fallwith an exaggerated gesture of weariness.  "The sonatas takeit out of one!  They are hideously difficult, you know. They are rarely played.""I didn't know," remarked Theron.  She seemed not to mindhis hand upon her shoulder, and he kept it there. "I didn't know anything about music at all.  What I do knownow is that--that this evening is an event in my life."She looked up at him and smiled.  He read unsuspectedtendernesses and tolerances of friendship in the depthsof her eyes, which emboldened him to stir the fingersof that audacious hand in a lingering, caressing trillupon her shoulder.  The movement was of the faintest,but having ventured it, he drew his hand abruptly away."You are getting on," she said to him.  There was anenigmatic twinkle in the smile with which she continuedto regard him.  "We are Hellenizing you at a great rate."A sudden thought seemed to strike her.  She shiftedher eyes toward vacancy with a swift, abstracted glance,reflected for a moment, then let a sparkling half-winkand the dimpling beginnings of an almost roguish smilemark her assent to the conceit, whatever it might be."I will be with you in a moment," he heard her say;and while the words were still in his ears she had risenand passed out of sight through the broad, open doorwayto the right.  The looped curtains fell together behind her. Presently a mellow light spread over their delicatelytranslucent surface--a creamy, undulating radiance whichgave the effect of moving about among the myriad foldsof the silk.Theron gazed at these curtains for a little, then straightenedhis shoulders with a gesture of decision, and, turning on his heel,went over and examined the statues in the further corners minutely."If you would like some more, I will play you the Berceuse now."Her voice came to him with a delicious shock. He wheeled round and beheld her standing at the piano,with one hand resting, palm upward, on the keys.  She wasfacing him.  Her tall form was robed now in some shapeless,clinging drapery, lustrous and creamy and exquisitely soft,like the curtains.  The wonderful hair hung free and luxuriantabout her neck and shoulders, and glowed with an intensityof fiery color which made all the other hues of the roompale and vague.  A fillet of faint, sky-like blue drewa gracious span through the flame of red above her temples,and from this there rose the gleam of jewels.  Her headinclined gently, gravely, toward him--with the postureof that armless woman in marble he had been studying--and her brown eyes, regarding him from the shadows,emitted light."It is a lullaby--the only one he wrote," she said, as Theron,pale-faced and with tightened lips, approached her. "No--you mustn't stand there," she added, sinking intothe seat before the instrument; "go back and sit whereyou were."The most perfect of lullabies, with its swayingabandonment to cooing rhythm, ever and again risingin ripples to the point of insisting on something,one knows not what, and then rocking, melting awayonce more, passed, so to speak, over Theron's head. He leaned back upon the cushions, and watched the white,rounded forearm which the falling folds of this strange,statue-like drapery made bare.There was more that appealed to his mood in the Third Ballade. It seemed to him that there were words going along with it--incoherent and impulsive yet very earnest words,appealing to him in strenuous argument and persuasion. Each time he almost knew what they said, and strained aftertheir meaning with a passionate desire, and then therewould come a kind of cuckoo call, and everything wouldswing dancing off again into a mockery of inconsequence.Upon the silence there fell the pure, liquid, mellifluousmelody of a soft-throated woman singing to her lover."It is like Heine--simply a love-poem," said the girl,over her shoulder.Theron followed now with all his senses, as she carriedthe Ninth Nocturne onward.  The stormy passage, which shebanged finely forth, was in truth a lover's quarrel;and then the mild, placid flow of sweet harmonies intowhich the furore sank, dying languorously away upona silence all alive with tender memories of sound--was that not also a part of love?They sat motionless through a minute--the man on the divan,the girl at the piano--and Theron listened for what hefelt must be the audible thumping of his heart.Then, throwing back her head, with upturned face, Celia beganwhat she had withheld for the last--the Sixteenth Mazurka. This strange foreign thing she played with her eyes closed,her head tilted obliquely so that Theron could see therose-tinted, beautiful countenance, framed as if asleepin the billowing luxuriance of unloosed auburn hair. He fancied her beholding visions as she wrought the music--visions full of barbaric color and romantic forms. As his mind swam along with the gliding, tricksy phantomof a tune, it seemed as if he too could see these visions--as if he gazed at them through her eyes.It could not be helped.  He lifted himself noiselessly tohis feet, and stole with caution toward her.  He would hearthe rest of this weird, voluptuous fantasy standing thus,so close behind her that he could look down upon her full,uplifted lace--so close that, if she moved, that glowingnimbus of hair would touch him.There had been some curious and awkward pauses in thislast piece, which Theron, by some side cerebration,had put down to her not watching what her fingers did. There came another of these pauses now--an odd,unaccountable halt in what seemed the middle of everything. He stared intently down upon her statuesque, dreaming faceduring the hush, and caught his breath as he waited. There fell at last a few faltering ascending notes,making a half-finished strain, and then again therewas silence.Celia opened her eyes, and poured a direct, deep gazeinto the face above hers.  Its pale lips were partedin suspense, and the color had faded from its cheeks."That is the end," she said, and, with a turn of her lithe body,stood swiftly up, even while the echoes of the brokenmelody seemed panting in the air about her for completion.Theron put his hands to his face, and pressed them tightlyagainst eyes and brow for an instant.  Then, throwing themaside with an expansive downward sweep of the arms,and holding them clenched, he returned Celia's glance. It was as if he had never looked into a woman's eyes before."It CAN'T be the end!" he heard himself saying,in a low voice charged with deep significance.  He heldher gaze in the grasp of his with implacable tenacity. There was a trouble about breathing, and the mosaicfloor seemed to stir under his feet.  He clung defiantlyto the one idea of not releasing her eyes."How COULD it be the end?" he demanded, lifting an uncertainhand to his breast as he spoke, and spreading it thereas if to control the tumultuous fluttering of his heart. "Things don't end that way!"A sharp, blinding spasm of giddiness closed upon andshook him, while the brave words were on his lips. He blinked and tottered under it, as it passed, and thenbacked humbly to his divan and sat down, gasping a little,and patting his hand on his heart.  There was frightwritten all over his whitened face."We--we forgot that I am a sick man," he said feebly,answering Celia's look of surprised inquiry with a forced,wan smile.  "I was afraid my heart had gone wrong."She scrutinized him for a further moment, with growingreassurance in her air.  Then, piling up the pillowsand cushions behind him for support, for all the worldlike a big sister again, she stepped into the inner room,and returned with a flagon of quaint shape and a tiny glass. She poured this latter full to the brim of a thick yellowish,aromatic liquid, and gave it him to drink."This Benedictine is all I happen to have," she said. "Swallow it down.  It will do you good."Theron obeyed her.  It brought tears to his eyes; but,upon reflection, it was grateful and warming.  He did feelbetter almost immediately.  A great wave of comfort seemedto enfold him as he settled himself back on the divan. For that one flashing instant he had thought that hewas dying.  He drew a long grateful breath of relief,and smiled his content.Celia had seated herself beside him, a little away. She sat with her head against the wall, and one foot curledunder her, and almost faced him."I dare say we forced the pace a little," she remarked,after a pause, looking down at the floor, with the puckersof a ruminating amusement playing in the corners of her mouth. "It doesn't do for a man to get to be a Greek all of a sudden. He must work along up to it gradually."He remembered the music.  "Oh, if I only knew how to tell you,"he murmured ecstatically, "what a revelation your playinghas been to me!  I had never imagined anything like it. I shall think of it to my dying day."He began to remember as well the spirit that was in the airwhen the music ended.  The details of what he had feltand said rose vaguely in his mind.  Pondering them,his eye roved past Celia's white-robed figure to the broad,open doorway beyond.  The curtains behind which shehad disappeared were again parted and fastened back. A dim light was burning within, out of sight, and its faintillumination disclosed a room filled with white marbles,white silks, white draperies of varying sorts, which shapedthemselves, as he looked, into the canopy and trappingsof an extravagantly over-sized and sumptuous bed. He looked away again."I wish you would tell me what you really mean by that Greekidea of yours," he said with the abruptness of confusion.Celia did not display much enthusiasm in the toneof her answer.  "Oh," she said almost indifferently,"lots of things.  Absolute freedom from moral bugbears,for one thing.  The recognition that beauty is the onlything in life that is worth while.  The courage to kickout of one's life everything that isn't worth while;and so on.""But," said Theron, watching the mingled delicacy and powerof the bared arm and the shapely grace of the hand which shehad lifted to her face, "I am going to get you to teach itALL to me."  The memories began crowding in upon him now,and the baffling note upon which the mazurka had stoppedshort chimed like a tuning-fork in his ears.  "I want tobe a Greek myself, if you're one.  I want to get as closeto you--to your ideal, that is, as I can.  You open upto me a whole world that I had not even dreamed existed. We swore our friendship long ago, you know:  and now,after tonight--you and the music have decided me. I am going to put the things out of MY life that arenot worthwhile.  Only you must help me; you must tell mehow to begin."He looked up as he spoke, to enforce the almost tenderentreaty of his words.  The spectacle of a yawn,only fractionally concealed behind those talented fingers,chilled his soft speech, and sent a flush over his face. He rose on the instant.Celia was nothing abashed at his discovery.  She laughedgayly in confession of her fault, and held her hand out tolet him help her disentangle her foot from her draperies,and get off the divan.  It seemed to be her meaning that heshould continue holding her hand after she was also standing."You forgive me, don't you?" she urged smilingly. "Chopin always first excites me, then sends me to sleep. You see how YOU sleep tonight!"The brown, velvety eyes rested upon him, from under theirheavy lids, with a languorous kindliness.  Her warm,large palm clasped his in frank liking."I don't want to sleep at all," Mr. Ware was impelled to say. "I want to lie awake and think about--about everythingall over again."She smiled drowsily.  "And you're sure you feel strongenough to walk home?""Yes," he replied, with a lingering dilatory note,which deepened upon reflection into a sigh.  "Oh, yes."He followed her and her candle down the magnificentstairway again.  She blew the light out in the hall,and, opening the front door, stood with him for a silentmoment on the threshold.  Then they shook hands once more,and with a whispered good-night, parted.Celia, returning to the blue and yellow room, lighted a cigaretteand helped herself to some Benedictine in the glass whichTheron had used.  She looked meditatively at this little glassfor a moment, turning it about in her fingers with a smile. The smile warmed itself suddenly into a joyous laugh. She tossed the glass aside, and, holding out her flowingskirts with both hands, executed a swinging pirouettein front of the gravely beautiful statue of the armless woman.CHAPTER XXIt was apparent to the Rev. Theron Ware, from the veryfirst moment of waking next morning, that both he andthe world had changed over night.  The metamorphosis,in the harsh toils of which he had been laboring blindlyso long, was accomplished.  He stood forth, so to speak,in a new skin, and looked about him, with perceptionsof quite an altered kind, upon what seemed in every waya fresh existence.  He lacked even the impulse to turnround and inspect the cocoon from which he had emerged. Let the past bury the past.  He had no vestige of interestin it.The change was not premature.  He found himself not inthe least confused by it, or frightened.  Before he hadfinished shaving, he knew himself to be easily and comfortablyat home in his new state, and master of all its requirements.It seemed as if Alice, too, recognized that he had becomeanother man, when he went down and took his chair at thebreakfast table.  They had exchanged no words since theirparting in the depot-yard the previous evening--an eventnow faded off into remote vagueness in Theron's mind. He smiled brilliantly in answer to the furtive,half-sullen, half-curious glance she stole at him,as she brought the dishes in."Ah! potatoes warmed up in cream!" he said, with heartypleasure in his tone.  "What a mind-reader you are,to be sure!""I'm glad you're feeling so much better," she said briefly,taking her seat."Better?" he returned.  "I'm a new being!"She ventured to look him over more freely, upon this assurance. He perceived and catalogued, one by one, the emotionswhich the small brain was expressing through those shallowblue eyes of hers.  She was turning over this, that,and the other hostile thought and childish grievance--most of all she was dallying with the idea of asking himwhere he had been till after midnight.  He smiled affablyin the face of this scattering fire of peevish glances,and did not dream of resenting any phase of them all."I am going down to Thurston's this morning, and orderthat piano sent up today," he announced presently,in a casual way."Why, Theron, can we afford it?" the wife asked,regarding him with surprise."Oh, easily enough," he replied light-heartedly. "Youknow they've increased my salary."She shook her head.  "No, I didn't. How should I? You don't realize it," she went on, dolefully, "but you'regetting so you don't tell me the least thing about youraffairs nowadays."Theron laughed aloud.  "You ought to be grateful--such melancholy affairs as mine have been till now,"he declared--"that is, if it weren't absurd to thinksuch a thing."  Then, more soberly, he explained: "No, my girl, it is you who don't realize.  I am carryingbig projects in my mind--big, ambitious thoughts andplans upon which great things depend.  They no doubtmake me seem preoccupied and absent-minded; but itis a wife's part to understand, and make allowances,and not intrude trifles which may throw everything outof gear.  Don't think I'm scolding, my girl.  I onlyspeak to reassure you and--and help you to comprehend. Of course I know that you wouldn't willingly embarrass my--my career.""Of course not," responded Alice, dubiously; "but--but--""But what?  Theron felt compelled by civility to say,though on the instant he reproached himself for the weaknessof it."Well--I hardly know how to say it," she faltered, "but itwas nicer in the old days, before you bothered your headabout big projects, and your career, as you call it,and were just a good, earnest, simple young servantof the Lord.  Oh, Theron!" she broke forth suddenly,with tearful zeal, "I get sometimes lately almost scaredlest you should turn out to be a--a BACKSLIDER!"The husband sat upright, and hardened his countenance. But yesterday the word would have had in it all sortsof inherited terrors for him.  This morning's dawnof a new existence revealed it as merely an empty andstupid epithet."These are things not to be said," he admonished her,after a moment's pause, and speaking with carefullymeasured austerity.  "Least of all are they to be saidto a clergyman--by his wife."It was on the tip of Alice's tongue to retort, "Better byhis wife than by outsiders!" but she bit her lips,and kept the gibe back.  A rebuke of this form and gravitywas a novelty in their relations.  The fear that it hadbeen merited troubled, even while it did not convince,her mind, and the puzzled apprehension was to be readplainly enough on her face.Theron, noting it, saw a good deal more behind.  Really,it was amazing how much wiser he had grown all at once. He had been married for years, and it was only this morningthat he suddenly discovered how a wife ought to be handled. He continued to look sternly away into space for a little. Then his brows relaxed slowly and under the visibleinfluence of melting considerations.  He nodded his head,turned toward her abruptly, and broke the silence withlabored amiability."Come, come--the day began so pleasantly--it was so goodto feel well again--let us talk about the piano instead. That is," he added, with an obvious overture to playfulness,"if the thought of having a piano is not too distastefulto you."Alice yielded almost effusively to his altered mood. They went together into the sitting-room, to measureand decide between the two available spaces which were attheir disposal, and he insisted with resolute magnanimityon her settling this question entirely by herself. When at last he mentioned the fact that it was Friday,and he would look over some sermon memoranda beforehe went out, Alice retired to the kitchen in openlycheerful spirits.Theron spread some old manuscript sermons before himon his desk, and took down his scribbling-book as well. But there his application flagged, and he surrenderedhimself instead, chin on hand, to staring out atthe rhododendron in the yard.  He recalled how he hadseen Soulsby patiently studying this identical bush. The notion of Soulsby, not knowing at all how to sing,yet diligently learning those sixths, brought a smileto his mind; and then he seemed to hear Celia calling outover her shoulder, "That's what Chopin does--he sings!" The spirit of that wonderful music came back to him,enfolded him in its wings.  It seemed to raise itself up--a palpable barrier between him and all that he had knownand felt and done before.  That was his new birth--that marvellous night with the piano.  The conceit pleased him--not the less because there flashed along with it the thoughtthat it was a poet that had been born.  Yes; the formercountry lout, the narrow zealot, the untutored slavegroping about in the dark after silly superstitions,cringing at the scowl of mean Pierces and Winches,was dead.  There was an end of him, and good riddance. In his place there had been born a Poet--he spelled the wordout now unabashed--a child of light, a lover of beauty andsweet sounds, a recognizable brother to Renan and Chopin--and Celia!Out of the soothing, tenderly grateful revery, a practicalsuggestion suddenly took shape.  He acted upon itwithout a moment's delay, getting out his letter-pad,and writing hurriedly--"Dear Miss Madden,--Life will be more tolerable to meif before nightfall I can know that there is a pianounder my roof.  Even if it remains dumb, it will be somecomfort to have it here and look at it, and imaginehow a great master might make it speak."Would it be too much to beg you to look in at Thurston's,say at eleven this forenoon, and give me the inestimablebenefit of your judgment in selecting an instrument?"Do not trouble to answer this, for I am leaving home now,but shall call at Thurston's at eleven, and wait."Thanking you in anticipation,"I am--"Here Theron's fluency came to a sharp halt.  There were adverbsenough and to spare on the point of his pen, but the rightone was not easy to come at.  "Gratefully," "faithfully,""sincerely," "truly"--each in turn struck a false note. He felt himself not quite any of these things. At last he decided to write just the simple word "yours,"and then wavered between satisfaction at his boldness,dread lest he had been over-bold, and, worst of the lot,fear that she would not notice it one way or the other--all the while he sealed and addressed the letter, put itcarefully in an inner pocket, and got his hat.There was a moment's hesitation as to notifying the kitchenof his departure.  The interests of domestic discipline seemedto point the other way.  He walked softly through the hall,and let himself out by the front door without a sound.Down by the canal bridge he picked out an idle boy to his mind--a lad whose aspect appeared to promise intelligenceas a messenger, combined with large impartiality insectarian matters.  He was to have ten cents on his return;and he might report himself to his patron at the bookstore yonder.Theron was grateful to the old bookseller for remainingat his desk in the rear.  There was a tacit complimentin the suggestion that he was not a mere customer,demanding instant attention.  Besides, there was no keeping"Thurston's" out of conversations in this place.Loitering along the shelves, the young minister's eyesuddenly found itself arrested by a name on a cover. There were a dozen narrow volumes in uniform binding,huddled together under a cardboard label of "EminentWomen Series."  Oddly enough, one of these bore the title"George Sand."  Theron saw there must be some mistake,as he took the book down, and opened it.  His glancehit by accident upon the name of Chopin.  Then he readattentively until almost the stroke of eleven."We have to make ourselves acquainted with all sortsof queer phases of life," he explained in self-defenceto the old bookseller, then counting out the money forthe book from his lean purse.  He smiled as he added,"There seems something almost wrong about taking advantageof the clergyman's discount for a life of George Sand.""I don't know," answered the other, pleasantly.  "Guess shewasn't so much different from the rest of 'em--exceptthat she didn't mind appearances.  We know about her. We don't know about the others.""I must hurry," said Theron, turning on his heel. The haste with which he strode out of the store,crossed the street, and made his way toward Thurston's,did not prevent his thinking much upon the astonishingthings he had encountered in this book.  Their relationto Celia forced itself more and more upon his mind. He could recall the twinkle in her eye, the sub-mockeryin her tone, as she commented with that half-contemptuous"Yes--George something!" upon his blundering ignorance. His mortification at having thus exposed his dullrusticity was swallowed up in conjectures as to justwhat her tolerant familiarity with such things involved. He had never before met a young unmarried woman who wouldhave confessed to him any such knowledge.  But then,of course, he had never known a girl who resembled Celiain any other way.  He recognized vaguely that he mustprovide himself with an entire new set of standards by whichto measure and comprehend her.  But it was for the momentmore interesting to wonder what her standards were. Did she object to George Sand's behavior?  Or did shesympathize with that sort of thing?  Did those statues,and the loose-flowing diaphonous toga and unbound hair,the cigarettes, the fiery liqueur, the deliberatelysensuous music--was he to believe that they signified--?"Good-morning, Mr. Ware.  You have managed by a miracleto hit on one of my punctual days," said Celia.She was standing on the doorstep, at the entrance to themusical department of Thurston's. He had not noticedbefore the fact that the sun was shining.  The full glareof its strong light, enveloping her figure as she stood,and drawing the dazzled eye for relief to the bowerof softened color, close beneath her parasol of creamysilk and lace, was what struck him now first of all. It was as if Celia had brought the sun with her.Theron shook hands with her, and found joy in the perception,that his own hand trembled.  He put boldly into wordsthe thought that came to him."It was generous of you," he said, "to wait for me out here,where all might delight in the sight of you, instead ofsquandering the privilege on a handful of clerks inside."Miss Madden beamed upon him, and nodded approval."Alcibiades never turned a prettier compliment,"she remarked.  They went in together at this, and Theronmade a note of the name.During the ensuing half-hour, the young minister followedabout even more humbly than the clerks in Celia'scommanding wake.  There were a good many pianos in the bigshow-room overhead, and Theron found himself almost awedby their size and brilliancy of polish, and the thoughtof the tremendous sum of money they represented altogether. Not so with the organist.  She ordered them rolled aroundthis way or that, as if they had been so many checkers ona draught-board. She threw back their covers with the scantceremony of a dispensary dentist opening paupers' mouths. She exploited their several capacities with masterful hands,not deigning to seat herself, but just slightlybending forward, and sweeping her fingers up and downtheir keyboards--able, domineering fingers which pounded,tinkled, meditated, assented, condemned, all in a flash, andamid what affected the layman's ears as a hopelessly discordant hubbub.Theron moved about in the group, nursing her parasolin his arms, and watching her.  The exaggerated deferencewhich the clerks and salesmen showed to her as the richMiss Madden, seemed to him to be mixed with a certainassertion of the claims of good-fellowship on the scoreof her being a musician.  There undoubtedly was a senseof freemasonry between them.  They alluded continuallyin technical terms to matters of which he knew nothing,and were amused at remarks of hers which to him carriedno meaning whatever.  It was evident that the youngmen liked her, and that their liking pleased her. It thrilled him to think that she knew he liked her,too, and to recall what abundant proofs she had giventhat here, also, she had pleasure in the fact.  He clunginsistently to the memory of these evidences.  They helpedhim to resist a disagreeable tendency to feel himselfan intruder, an outsider, among these pianoforte experts.When it was all over, Celia waved the others aside,and talked with Theron.  "I suppose you want me to tell youthe truth," she said.  "There's nothing here really good. It is always much better to buy of the makers direct.""Do they sell on the instalment plan?" he asked. There was a wistful effect in his voice which caughther attention.She looked away--out through the window on the street below--for a moment.  Then her eyes returned to his, and regardedhim with a comforting, friendly, half-motherly glance,recalling for all the world the way Sister Soulsby hadlooked at him at odd times."Oh, you want it at once--I see," she remarked softly. "Well, this Adelberger is the best value for the money."Mr. Ware followed her finger, and beheld with dismaythat it pointed toward the largest instrument in the room--a veritable leviathan among pianos.  The price of thishad been mentioned as $600. He turned over the factthat this was two-thirds his yearly salary, and foundthe courage to shake his head."It would be too large--much too large--for the room,"he explained.  "And, besides, it is more than I like to pay--or CAN pay, for that matter."  It was pitiful to beexplaining such details, but there was no help for it.They picked out a smaller one, which Celia said was atleast of fair quality.  "Now leave all the bargainingto me," she adjured him.  "These prices that they talkabout in the piano trade are all in the air.  There aretremendous discounts, if one knows how to insist upon them. All you have to do is to tell them to send it to your house--you wanted it today, you said?""Yes--in memory of yesterday," he murmured.She herself gave the directions, and Thurston's people,now all salesmen again, bowed grateful acquiescence. Then she sailed regally across the room and down the stairs,drawing Theron in her train.  The hirelings made salaamsto him as well; it would have been impossible to interposeanything so trivial and squalid as talk about terms and datesof payment."I am ever so much obliged to you," he said fervently,in the comparative solitude of the lower floor.  She hadpaused to look at something in the book-department."Of course I was entirely at your service; don't mention it,"she replied, reaching forth her hand in an absent wayfor her parasol.He held up instead the volume he had purchased.  "Guess whatthat is!  You never would guess in this wide world!" His manner was surcharged with a sense of the surreptitious."Well, then, there's no good trying, IS there?"commented Celia, her glance roving again toward the shelves."It is a life of George Sand," whispered Theron. "I've been reading it this morning--all the Chopin part--while I was waiting for you."To his surprise, there was an apparently displeasedcontraction of her brows as he made this revelation. For the instant, a dreadful fear of having offended herseized upon and sickened him.  But then her face cleared,as by magic.  She smiled, and let her eyes twinklein laughter at him, and lifted a forefinger in the mostwinning mockery of admonition."Naughty! naughty!" she murmured back, with a roguishlysolemn wink.He had no response ready for this, but mutely handedher the parasol.  The situation had suddenly growntoo confused for words, or even sequent thoughts. Uppermost across the hurly-burly of his mind therescudded the singular reflection that he should never hearher play on that new piano of his.  Even as it flashedby out of sight, he recognized it for one of the griefsof his life; and the darkness which followed seemednothing but a revolt against the idea of having a pianoat all.  He would countermand the order.  He would--but she was speaking again.They had strolled toward the door, and her voice was asplacidly conventional as if the talk had never strayedfrom the subject of pianos.  Theron with an effortpulled himself together, and laid hold of her words."I suppose you will be going the other way," she was saying. "I shall have to be at the church all day.  We have justgot a new Mass over from Vienna, and I'm head over heelsin work at it.  I can have Father Forbes to myself today,too.  That bear of a doctor has got the rheumatism,and can't come out of his cave, thank Heaven!"And then she was receding from view, up the sunlit,busy sidewalk, and Theron, standing on the doorstep,ruefully rubbed his chin.  She had said he was goingthe other way, and, after a little pause, he made herwords good, though each step he took seemed all in despiteof his personal inclinations.  Some of the passers-bybowed to him, and one or two paused as if to shake handsand exchange greetings.  He nodded responses mechanically,but did not stop.  It was as if he feared to interruptthe process of lifting his reluctant feet and propellingthem forward, lest they should wheel and scuttle offin the opposite direction.CHAPTER XXIDeliberate as his progress was, the diminishing number ofstore-fronts along the sidewalk, and the increasing proportionof picket-fences enclosing domestic lawns, forced uponTheron's attention the fact that he was nearing home. It was a trifle past the hour for his midday meal. He was not in the least hungry; still less did he feel anydesire just now to sit about in that library living-roomof his.  Why should he go home at all?  There was noreason whatever--save that Alice would be expecting him. Upon reflection, that hardly amounted to a reason. Wives, with their limited grasp of the realities of life,were always expecting their husbands to do thingswhich it turned out not to be feasible for them to do. The customary male animal spent a considerable part of hislife in explaining to his mate why it had been necessaryto disappoint or upset her little plans for his comingsand goings.  It was in the very nature of things that itshould be so.Sustained by these considerations, Mr. Ware slackened his steps,then halted irresolutely, and after a minute's hesitation,entered the small temperance restaurant before which,as by intuition, he had paused.  The elderly woman whoplaced on the tiny table before him the tea and rollshe ordered, was entirely unknown to him, he felt sure,yet none the less she smiled at him, and spoke almostfamiliarly--"I suppose Mrs. Ware is at the seaside,and you are keeping bachelor's hall?""Not quite that," he responded stiffly, and hurriedthrough the meagre and distasteful repast, to avoidany further conversation.There was an idea underlying her remark, however, whichrecurred to him when he had paid his ten cents and gotout on the street again.  There was something interestingin the thought of Alice at the seaside.  Neither of themhad ever laid eyes on salt water, but Theron took for grantedthe most extravagant landsman's conception of its curativeand invigorating powers.  It was apparent to him that hewas going to pay much greater attention to Alice's happinessand well-being in the future than he had latterly done. He had bought her, this very day, a superb new piano. He was going to simply insist on her having a hired girl. And this seaside notion--why, that was best of all.His fancy built up pleasant visions of her feasting herdelighted eyes upon the marvel of a great ocean storm,or roaming along a beach strewn with wonderful marine shells,exhibiting an innocent joy in their beauty.  The freshsea-breeze blew through her hair, as he saw her in mind's eye,and brought the hardy flush of health back upon her ratherpallid cheeks.  He was prepared already hardly to know her,so robust and revivified would she have become, by thetime he went down to the depot to meet her on her return.For his imagination stopped short of seeing himselfat the seaside.  It sketched instead pictures of wholeweeks of solitary academic calm, alone with his booksand his thoughts.  The facts that he had no books,and that nobody dreamed of interfering with his thoughts,subordinated themselves humbly to his mood.  The prospect,as he mused fondly upon it, expanded to embrace thepriest's and the doctor's libraries; the thoughts whichhe longed to be alone with involved close communionwith their thoughts.  It could not but prove a seasonof immense mental stimulation and ethical broadening. It would have its lofty poetic and artistic side as well;the languorous melodies of Chopin stole over his revery,as he dwelt upon these things, and soft azure and goldenlights modelled forth the exquisite outlines of tallmarble forms.He opened the gate leading to Dr. Ledsmar's house.  His walkhad brought him quite out of the town, and up, by a broadmain highway which yet took on all sorts of sylvan charms,to a commanding site on the hillside.  Below, in the valley,lay Octavius, at one end half-hidden in factory smoke,at the other, where narrow bands of water gleamedupon the surface of a broad plain piled symmetricallywith lumber, presenting an oddly incongruous suggestionof forest odors and the simplicity of the wilderness. In the middle distance, on gradually rising ground,stretched a wide belt of dense, artificial foliage,peeping through which tiled turrets and ornamentedchimneys marked the polite residences of those who,though they neither stoked the furnace fires to the west,nor sawed the lumber on the east, lived in purple and finelinen from the profits of this toil.  Nearer at hand,pastures with grazing cows on the one side of the road,and the nigh, weather-stained board fence of the race-courseon the other, completed the jumble of primitive rusticityand urban complications characterizing the whole picture.Dr. Ledsmar's house, toward which Theron's impulses had beensecretly leading him ever since Celia's parting remarkabout the rheumatism, was of that spacious and satisfyingorder of old-fashioned houses which men of leisure andmeans built for themselves while the early traditionsof a sparse and contented homogeneous population werestill strong in the Republic.  There was a hospitable lookabout its wide veranda, its broad, low bulk, and its big,double front door, which did not fit at all with the sketchof a man-hating recluse that the doctor had drawn of himself.Theron had prepared his mind for the effect of beingadmitted by a Chinaman, and was taken somewhat abackwhen the door was opened by the doctor himself. His reception was pleasant enough, almost cordial,but the sense of awkwardness followed him into his host'sinner room and rested heavily upon his opening speech."I heard, quite by accident, that you were ill," he said,laying aside his hat."It's nothing at all," replied Ledsmar.  "Merely a stiffshoulder that I wear from time to time in memory of my father. It ought to be quite gone by nightfall.  It was good of youto come, all the same.  Sit down if you can find a chair. As usual, we are littered up to our eyes here.  That's it--throw those things on the floor."Mr. Ware carefully deposited an armful of pamphlets on therug at his feet, and sat down.  Litter was indeed the wordfor what he saw about him.  Bookcases, chairs, tables,the corners of the floor, were all buried deep underdisorderly strata of papers, diagrams, and opened books. One could hardly walk about without treading on them. The dust which danced up into the bar of sunshine streaming infrom the window, as the doctor stepped across to another chair,gave Theron new ideas about the value of Chinese servants."I must thank you, first of all, doctor," he began,"for your kindness in coming when I was ill.  'I was sick,and ye visited me.'""You mustn't think of it that way," said Ledsmar; "your friendcame for me, and of course I went; and gladly too. There was nothing that I could do, or that anybodycould do.  Very interesting man, that friend of yours. And his wife, too--both quite out of the common. I don't know when I've seen two such really genuine people. I should like to have known more of them.  Are theystill here?""They went yesterday," Theron replied.  His earlier shynesshad worn off, and he felt comfortably at his ease. "I don't know," he went on, "that the word 'genuine'is just what would have occurred to me to describethe Soulsbys.  The, are very interesting people, as you say--MOST interesting--and there was a time, l dare say,when I should have believed in their sincerity.  But ofcourse I saw them and their performance from the inside--like one on the stage of a theatre, you know, instead ofin the audience, and--well, I understand things betterthan I used to."The doctor looked over his spectacles at him with asuggestion of inquiry in his glance, and Theron continued: "I had several long talks with her; she told me veryfrankly the whole story of her life--and and it wasdecidedly queer, I can assure you!  I may say to you--you will understand what I mean--that since my talkwith you, and the books you lent me, I see manythings differently.  Indeed, when I think upon it sometimesmy old state of mind seems quite incredible to me. I can use no word for my new state short of illumination."Dr. Ledsmar continued to regard his guest with that calm,interrogatory scrutiny of his.  He did not seem disposedto take up the great issue of illumination.  "I suppose,"he said after a little, "no woman can come in contactwith a priest for any length of time WITHOUT telling himthe 'story of her life,' as you call it.  They all do it. The thing amounts to a law."The young minister's veins responded with a pleasurablethrill to the use of the word "priest" in obvious allusionto himself.  "Perhaps in fairness I ought to explain,"he said, "that in her case it was only done in the courseof a long talk about myself.  I might say that itwas by way of kindly warning to me.  She saw how Ihad become unsettled in many--many of my former views--and she was nervous lest this should lead me to--to--""To throw up the priesthood," the doctor interposed uponhis hesitation.  "Yes, I know the tribe.  Why, my dear sir,your entire profession would have perished from the memoryof mankind, if it hadn't been for women.  It is a verycurious subject.  Lots of thinkers have dipped into it,but no one has gone resolutely in with a search-lightand exploited the whole thing.  Our boys, for instance,traverse in their younger years all the stages of thechildhood of the race.  They have terrifying dreamsof awful monsters and giant animals of which they havenever so much as heard in their waking hours; they passthrough the lust for digging caves, building fires,sleeping out in the woods, hunting with bows and arrows--all remote ancestral impulses; they play games with stones,marbles, and so on at regular stated periods of the yearwhich they instinctively know, just as they were playedin the Bronze Age, and heaven only knows how much earlier. But the boy goes through all this, and leaves it behind him--so completely that the grown man feels himself morea stranger among boys of his own place who are thinkingand doing precisely the things he thought and did a fewyears before, than he would among Kurds or Esquimaux. But the woman is totally different.  She is infinitelymore precocious as a girl.  At an age when her slow brotheris still stubbing along somewhere in the neolithic period,she has flown way ahead to a kind of mediaeval stage,or dawn of mediaevalism, which is peculiarly her own. Having got there, she stays there; she dies there. The boy passes her, as the tortoise did the hare. He goes on, if he is a philosopher, and lets her remainin the dark ages, where she belongs.  If he happens to bea fool, which is customary, he stops and hangs around inher vicinity."Theron smiled.  "We priests," he said, and paused againto enjoy the words--"I suppose I oughtn't to inquiretoo closely just where we belong in the procession.""We are considering the question impersonally,"said the doctor.  "First of all, what you regard asreligion is especially calculated to attract women. They remain as superstitious today, down in the marrowof their bones, as they were ten thousand years ago. Even the cleverest of them are secretly afraid of omens,and respect auguries.  Think of the broadest womenyou know.  One of them will throw salt over her shoulderif she spills it.  Another drinks money from her cupby skimming the bubbles in a spoon.  Another forecastsher future by the arrangement of tea-grounds. Theymake the constituency to which an institution basedon mysteries, miracles, and the supernatural generally,would naturally appeal.  Secondly, there is the personalityof the priest.""Yes," assented Ware.  There rose up before him,on the instant, the graceful, portly figure and strong,comely face of Father Forbes."Women are not a metaphysical people.  They do noteasily follow abstractions.  They want their dogmasand religious sentiments embodied in a man, just as theydo their romantic fancies.  Of course you Protestants,with your married clergy, see less of the effects of thisthan celibates do, but even with you there is a great dealin it.  Why, the very institution of celibacy itselfwas forced upon the early Christian Church by the scandalof rich Roman ladies loading bishops and handsome priestswith fabulous gifts until the passion for currying favorwith women of wealth, and marrying them or wheedlingtheir fortunes from them, debauched the whole priesthood. You should read your Jerome.""I will--certainly," said the listener, resolving toremember the name and refer it to the old bookseller."Well, whatever laws one sect or another makes, the woman'sattitude toward the priest survives.  She desires to seehim surrounded by flower-pots and candles, to have himsmelling of musk.  She would like to curl his hair,and weave garlands in it.  Although she is not learnedenough to have ever heard of such things, she intuitivelyfeels in his presence a sort of backwash of the old pagansensuality and lascivious mysticism which envelopedthe priesthood in Greek and Roman days.  Ugh!  It makesone sick!"Dr. Ledsmar rose, as he spoke, and dismissed the topic witha dry little laugh.  "Come, let me show you round a bit,"he said.  "My shoulder is easier walking than sitting.""Have you never written a book yourself?" asked Theron,getting to his feet."I have a thing on serpent-worship," the scientistreplied--"written years ago.""I can't tell you how I should enjoy reading it,"urged the other.The doctor laughed again.  "You'll have to learn German,then, I 'm afraid.  It is still in circulation in Germany,I believe, on its merits as a serious book.  I haven'ta copy of the edition in English.  THAT was all exhaustedby collectors who bought it for its supposed obscenity,like Burton's 'Arabian Nights.'  Come this way, and Iwill show you my laboratory."They moved out of the room, and through a passage,Ledsmar talking as he led the way.  "I took up that subject,when I was at college, by a curious chance.  I kept a youngmonkey in my rooms, which had been born in captivity. I brought home from a beer hall--it was in Germany--some pretzels one night, and tossed one toward the monkey. He jumped toward it, then screamed and ran back shudderingwith fright.  I couldn't understand it at first.  Then Isaw that the curled pretzel, lying there on the floor,was very like a little coiled-up snake.  The monkey hadnever seen a snake, but it was in his blood to be afraidof one.  That incident changed my whole life for me. Up to that evening, I had intended to be a lawyer."Theron did not feel sure that he had understood the pointof the anecdote.  He looked now, without much interest,at some dark little tanks containing thick water, a row of smallglass cases with adders and other lesser reptiles inside,and a general collection of boxes, jars, and similarreceptacles connected with the doctor's pursuits. Further on was a smaller chamber, with a big empty furnace,and shelves bearing bottles and apparatus like a drugstore.It was pleasanter in the conservatory--a low,spacious structure with broad pathways between the plants,and an awning over the sunny side of the roof.  The plantswere mostly orchids, he learned.  He had read of them,but never seen any before.  No doubt they were curious;but he discovered nothing to justify the great fussmade about them.  The heat grew oppressive inside,and he was glad to emerge into the garden.  He pausedunder the grateful shade of a vine-clad trellis, took offhis hat, and looked about him with a sigh of relief. Everything seemed old-fashioned and natural and delightfullyfree from pretence in the big, overgrown field of flowersand shrubs.Theron recalled with some surprise Celia's indictmentof the doctor as a man with no poetry in his soul. "You must be extremely fond of flowers," he remarked.Dr. Ledsmar shrugged his well shoulder.  "They have their points,"he said briefly.  "These are all dioecious here.  Over beyondare monoecious species.  My work is to test the probabilitiesfor or against Darwin's theory that hermaphroditismin plants is a late by-product of these earlier forms.""And is his theory right?" asked Mr. Ware, with a politeshow of interest."We may know in the course of three or four hundred years,"replied Ledsmar.  He looked up into his guest's facewith a quizzical half-smile. "That is a very brief periodfor observation when such a complicated question as sexis involved," he added.  "We have been studying the femaleof our own species for some hundreds of thousands of years,and we haven't arrived at the most elementary rulesgoverning her actions."They had moved along to a bed of tall plants, the moreforward of which were beginning to show bloom.  "Here anothertask will begin next month," the doctor observed. "These are salvias, pentstemons, and antirrhinums,or snapdragons, planted very thick for the purpose. Humble-bees bore holes through their base, to savethe labor of climbing in and out of the flowers,and we don't quite know yet why some hive-bees discoverand utilize these holes at once, while others never do. It may be merely the old-fogy conservatism of the individual,or there may be a law in it."These seemed very paltry things for a man of such wisdomto bother his head about.  Theron looked, as he was bidden,at the rows of hives shining in the hot sun on a benchalong the wall, but offered no comment beyond a casual,"My mother was always going to keep bees, but somehow shenever got around to it.  They say it pays very well, though.""The discovery of the reason why no bee will touch thenectar of the EPIPACTIS LATIFOLIA, though it is sweetto our taste, and wasps are greedy for it, WOULD pay,"commented the doctor.  "Not like a blue rhododendron,in mere money, but in recognition.  Lots of men haveachieved a half-column in the 'Encyclopedia Britannica'on a smaller basis than that."They stood now at the end of the garden, before a small,dilapidated summer-house. On the bench inside, facing him,Theron saw a strange recumbent figure stretched atfull length, apparently sound asleep, or it might be dead. Looking closer, with a startled surprise, he made outthe shaven skull and outlandish garb of a Chinaman. He turned toward his guide in the expectation of a scene.The doctor had already taken out a note-book and pencil,and was drawing his watch from his pocket.  He stepped intothe summer-house, and, lifting the Oriental's limp arm,took account of his pulse.  Then, with head bowed low,side-wise, he listened for the heart-action. Finally,he somewhat brusquely pushed back one of the Chinaman's eyelids,and made a minute inspection of what the operation disclosed. Returning to the light, he inscribed some notes inhis book, put it back in his pocket, and came out. In answer to Theron's marvelling stare, he pointed towarda pipe of odd construction lying on the floor beneaththe sleeper."This is one of my regular afternoon duties," he explained,again with the whimsical half-smile. "I am increasing hisdose monthly by regular stages, and the results promiseto be rather remarkable.  Heretofore, observations have beenmade mostly on diseased or morbidly deteriorated subjects. This fellow of mine is strong as an ox, perfectly nourished,and watched over intelligently.  He can assimilate opiumenough to kill you and me and every other vertebratecreature on the premises, without turning a hair, and hehasn't got even fairly under way yet."The thing was unpleasant, and the young minister turned away. They walked together up the path toward the house. His mind was full now of the hostile things which Celiahad said about the doctor.  He had vaguely sympathizedwith her then, upon no special knowledge of his own. Now he felt that his sentiments were vehemently in accordwith hers.  The doctor WAS a beast.And yet--as they moved slowly along through the gardenthe thought took sudden shape in his mind--it would beonly justice for him to get also the doctor's opinionof Celia.  Even while they offended and repelled him,he could not close his eyes to the fact that the doctor'sexperiments and occupations were those of a patientand exact man of science--a philosopher.  And what hehad said about women--there was certainly a great dealof acumen and shrewd observation in that.  If he wouldonly say what he really thought about Celia, and abouther relations with the priest!  Yes, Theron recognizednow there was nothing else that he so much needed lightupon as those puzzling ties between Celia and Father Forbes.He paused, with a simulated curiosity, about one ofthe flower-beds. "Speaking of women and religion"--he began, in as casual a tone as he could command--"I notice curiously enough in my own case, that as I developin what you may call the--the other direction, my wife,who formerly was not especially devote, is being stronglyattracted by the most unthinking and hysterical side of--of our church system."The doctor looked at him, nodded, and stooped to nipsome buds from a stalk in the bed."And another case," Theron went on--"of course it was allso new and strange to me--but the position which MissMadden seems to occupy about the Catholic Church here--I suppose you had her in mind when you spoke."Ledsmar stood up.  "My mind has better things to busyitself with than mad asses of that description,"he replied.  "She is not worth talking about--a merebundle of egotism, ignorance, and red-headed lewdness. If she were even a type, she might be worth considering;but she is simply an abnormal sport, with a little brainaddled by notions that she is like Hypatia, and a largeimpudence rendered intolerable by the fact that shehas money.  Her father is a decent man.  He ought to haveher whipped."Mr. Ware drew himself erect, as he listened to theseoutrageous words.  It would be unmanly, he felt, to allowsuch comments upon an absent friend to pass unrebuked. Yet there was the courtesy due to a host to be considered. His mind, fluttering between these two extremes,alighted abruptly upon a compromise.  He would speakso as to show his disapproval, yet not so as to preventhis finding out what he wanted to know.  The desireto hear Ledsmar talk about Celia and the priest seemednow to have possessed him for a long time, to havedictated his unpremeditated visit out here, to have beengrowing in intensity all the while he pretended to beinterested in orchids and bees and the drugged Chinaman. It tugged passionately at his self-control as he spoke."I cannot in the least assent to your characterizationof the lady," he began with rhetorical dignity."Bless me!" interposed the doctor, with deceptivecheerfulness, "that is not required of you at all. It is a strictly personal opinion, offered merelyas a contribution to the general sum of hypotheses.""But," Theron went on, feeling his way, "of course,I gathered that evening that you had prejudices in the matter;but these are rather apart from the point I had in view. We were speaking, you will remember, of the traditionalattitude of women toward priests--wanting to curl theirhair and put flowers in it, you know, and that suggestedto me some individual illustrations, and it occurredto me to wonder just what were the relations between MissMadden and--and Father Forbes.  She said this morning,for instance--I happened to meet her, quite by accident--that she was going to the church to practise a new piece,and that she could have Father Forbes to herself all day. Now that would be quite an impossible remark in our--that is,in any Protestant circles--and purely as a matter of comparison,I was curious to ask you just how much there was in it. I ask you, because going there so much you have had exceptionalopportunities for--"A sharp exclamation from his companion interruptedthe clergyman's hesitating monologue.  It began like ahigh-pitched, violent word, but dwindled suddenly into a groanof pain.  The doctor's face, too, which had on the flashof Theron's turning seemed given over to unmixed anger,took on an expression of bodily suffering instead."My shoulder has grown all at once excessively painful,"he said hastily.  "I'm afraid I must ask you to excuse me,Mr. Ware."Carrying the afflicted side with ostentatious caution,he led the way without ado round the house to the frontgate on the road.  He had put his left hand under his coatto press it against his aching shoulder, and his right hungpalpably helpless.  This rendered it impossible for himto shake hands with his guest in parting."You're sure there's nothing I can do," said Theron,lingering on the outer side of the gate.  "I used to rubmy father's shoulders and back; I'd gladly--""Oh, not for worlds!" groaned the doctor.  His anguishwas so impressive that Theron, as he walked down the road,quite missed the fact that there had been no invitationto come again.Dr. Ledsmar stood for a minute or two, his gaze meditativelyfollowing the retreating figure.  Then he went in, opening thefront door with his right hand, and carrying himself once moreas if there were no such thing as rheumatism in the world. He wandered on through the hall into the laboratory,and stopped in front of the row of little tanks full of water.Some deliberation was involved in whatever his purpose might be,for he looked from one tank to another with a pondering,dilatory gaze.  At last he plunged his hand into the opaquefluid and drew forth a long, slim, yellowish-green lizard,with a coiling, sinuous tail and a pointed, evil head. The reptile squirmed and doubled itself backward aroundhis wrist, darting out and in with dizzy swiftness its tinyforked tongue.The doctor held the thing up to the light, and, scrutinizing itthrough his spectacles, nodded his head in sedate approval. A grim smile curled in his beard."Yes, you are the type," he murmured to it, with evidentenjoyment in the conceit.  "Your name isn't Johnny any more. It's the Rev. Theron Ware."CHAPTER XXIIThe annual camp-meeting of the combined Methodistdistricts of Octavius and Thessaly was held this year inthe second half of September, a little later than usual. Of the nine days devoted to this curious survival ofprimitive Wesleyanism, the fifth fell upon a Saturday. On the noon of that day the Rev. Theron Ware escapedfor some hours from the burden of work and incessantobservation which he shared with twenty other preachers,and walked alone in the woods.The scene upon which he turned his back was one worthlooking at.  A spacious, irregularly defined clearingin the forest lay level as a tennis-court, under the softhaze of autumn sunlight.  In the centre was a large,roughly constructed frame building, untouched by paint,but stained and weather-beaten with time.  Behind it were somelines of horse-sheds, and still further on in that direction,where the trees began, the eye caught fragmentaryglimpses of low roofs and the fronts of tiny cottages,withdrawn from full view among the saplings and underbrush. At the other side of the clearing, fully fourscore tentswere pitched, some gray and mended, others dazzlinglywhite in their newness.  The more remote of these tentsfell into an orderly arrangement of semi-circular form,facing that part of the engirdling woods where the treeswere largest, and their canopy of overhanging foliagewas lifted highest from the ground.  Inside this half-ringof tents were many rounded rows of benches, which followedin narrowing lines the idea of an amphitheatre cut in two. In the centre, just under the edge of the roof of boughs,rose a wooden pagoda, in form not unlike an open-air standfor musicians.  In front of this, and leading from iton the level of its floor, there projected a platform,railed round with aggressively rustic woodwork. The nearest benches came close about this platform.At the hour when Theron started away, there were few enoughsigns of life about this encampment.  The four or fivehundred people who were in constant residence were eatingtheir dinners in the big boarding-house, or the cottagesor the tents.  It was not the time of day for strangers. Even when services were in progress by daylight,the regular attendants did not make much of a show,huddled in a gray-black mass at the front of the auditorium,by comparison with the great green and blue expansesof nature about them.The real spectacle was in the evening when, as theshadows gathered, big clusters of kerosene torches,hung on the trees facing the audience were lighted. The falling darkness magnified the glow of the lights,and the size and importance of what they illumined. The preacher, bending forward over the rails of the platform,and fastening his eyes upon the abashed faces of thoseon the "anxious seat" beneath him, borrowed an effectof druidical mystery from the wall of blackness about him,from the flickering reflections on the branches far above,from the cool night air which stirred across the clearing. The change was in the blood of those who saw and heardhim, too.  The decorum and half-heartedness of theirdevotions by day deepened under the glare of the torchesinto a fervent enthusiasm, even before the services began. And if there was in the rustic pulpit a man whose prayersor exhortations could stir their pulses, they sang andgroaned and bellowed out their praises with an almostbarbarous license, such as befitted the wilderness.But in the evening not all were worshippers.  For a dozenmiles round on the country-side, young farm-workers andtheir girls regarded the camp-meeting as perhaps the chiefevent of the year--no more to be missed than the countryfair or the circus, and offering, from many points of view,more opportunities for genuine enjoyment than either. Their behavior when they came was pretty bad--not the lessso because all the rules established by the PresidingElders for the regulation of strangers took it for grantedthat they would act as viciously as they knew how. These sight-seers sometimes ventured to occupy the back bencheswhere the light was dim.  More often they stood outside,in the circular space between the tents and the benches,and mingled cat-calls, drovers' yelps, and all sortsof mocking cries and noises with the "Amens" of theearnest congregation.  Their rough horse-play on thefringe of the sanctified gathering was grievous enough;everybody knew that much worse things went on furtherout in the surrounding darkness.  Indeed, popular reportgave to these external phases of the camp-meeting an evenmore evil fame than attached to the later moonlighthusking-bees, or the least reputable of the midwinterdances at Dave Randall's low halfway house.Cynics said that the Methodists found consolationfor this scandal in the large income they derived fromtheir unruly visitors' gate-money. This was unfair. No doubt the money played its part, but there was somethingelse far more important.  The pious dwellers in the camp,intent upon reviving in their poor modern way the characterand environment of the heroic early days, felt the needof just this hostile and scoffing mob about them to bringout the spirit they sought.  Theirs was pre-eminentlya fighting religion, which languished in peacefulfair weather, but flamed high in the storm.  The throngof loafers and light-minded worldlings of both sexes,with their jeering interruptions and lewd levity of conduct,brought upon the scene a kind of visible personal devil,with whom the chosen could do battle face to face. The daylight services became more and more perfunctory,as the sojourn in the woods ran its course, and interestconcentrated itself upon the night meetings, for the reasonthat THEN came the fierce wrestle with a Beelzebub of fleshand blood.  And it was not so one-sided a contest, either!No evening passed without its victories for the pulpit. Careless or mischievous young people who were pushed intothe foremost ranks of the mockers, and stood grinningand grimacing under the lights, would of a sudden feela spell clamped upon them.  They would hear a strange,quavering note in the preacher's voice, catch the senseof a piercing, soul-commanding gleam in his eye--not at all to be resisted.  These occult forces wouldtake control of them, drag them forward as in a dreamto the benches under the pulpit, and abase them there likeworms in the dust.  And then the preacher would descend,and the elders advance, and the torch-fires would swayand dip before the wind of the mighty roar that went upin triumph from the brethren.These combats with Satan at close quarters, if theymade the week-day evenings exciting, reacted with aneffect of crushing dulness upon the Sunday services. The rule was to admit no strangers to the grounds fromSaturday night to Monday morning.  Every year attemptswere made to rescind or modify this rule, and this seasonat least three-fourths of the laymen in attendance hadsigned a petition in favor of opening the gates.  The twoPresiding Elders, supported by a dozen of the older preachers,resisted the change, and they had the backing of the morebigoted section of the congregation from Octavius. The controversy reached a point where Theron's PresidingElder threatened to quit the grounds, and the leadersof the open-Sunday movement spoke freely of the ridiculousfigure which its cranks and fanatics made poor Methodismcut in the eyes of modern go-ahead American civilization. Then Theron Ware saw his opportunity, and preachedan impromptu sermon upon the sanctity of the Sabbath,which ended all discussion.  Sometimes its arguments seemedto be on one side, sometimes on the other, but alwaysthey were clothed with so serene a beauty of imagery,and moved in such a lofty and rarefied atmosphereof spiritual exaltation, that it was impossible to linkthem to so sordid a thing as this question of gate-money.When he had finished, nobody wanted the gates opened. The two factions found that the difference between them hadmelted out of existence.  They sat entranced by the charmof the sermon; then, glancing around at the empty benches,glaringly numerous in the afternoon sunlight, they whisperedregrets that ten thousand people had not been thereto hear that marvellous discourse.  Theron's conquest wasof exceptional dimensions.  The majority, whose projecthe had defeated, were strangers who appreciated andadmired his effort most.  The little minority of hisown flock, though less susceptible to the influenceof graceful diction and delicately balanced rhetoric,were proud of the distinction he had reflected upon them,and delighted with him for having won their fight. The Presiding Elders wrung his hand with a significant grip. The extremists of his own charge beamed friendship uponhim for the first time.  He was the veritable hero of the week.The prestige of this achievement made it the easierfor Theron to get away by himself next day, and walk inthe woods.  A man of such power had a right to solitude. Those who noted his departure from the camp rememberedwith pleasure that he was to preach again on the morrow. He was going to commune with God in the depths of the forest,that the Message next day might be clearer and moreluminous still.Theron strolled for a little, with an air of aimlessness,until he was well outside the more or less frequentedneighborhood of the camp.  Then he looked at the sunand the lay of the land with that informing scrutinyof which the farm-bred boy never loses the trick, turned,and strode at a rattling pace down the hillside. He knew nothing personally of this piece of woodland--a spur of the great Adirondack wilderness thrust southwardinto the region of homesteads and dairies and hop-fields--but he had prepared himself by a study of the map, and heknew where he wanted to go.  Very Soon he hit upon the pathhe had counted upon finding, and at this he quickenedhis gait.Three months of the new life had wrought changesin Theron.  He bore himself more erectly, for one thing;his shoulders were thrown back, and seemed thicker. The alteration was even more obvious in his face. The effect of lank, wistful, sallow juvenility had vanished. It was the countenance of a mature, well-fed, and confident man,firmer and more rounded in its outlines, and with a glowof health on its whole surface.  Under the chin werethe suggestions of fulness which bespeak an easy mind. His clothes were new; the frock-coat fitted him, and the thin,dark-colored autumn overcoat, with its silk lining exposedat the breast, gave a masculine bulk and shape to his figure. He wore a shining tall hat, and, in haste though he was,took pains not to knock it against low-hanging branches.All had gone well--more than well--with him.  The secondQuarterly Conference had passed without a ripple. Both the attendance and the collections at his church werelarger than ever before, and the tone of the congregationtoward him was altered distinctly for the better. As for himself, he viewed with astonished delight the progresshe had made in his own estimation.  He had taken SisterSoulsby's advice, and the results were already wonderful. He had put aside, once and for all, the thousand foolishtrifles and childish perplexities which formerly had rackedhis brain, and worried him out of sleep and strength. He borrowed all sorts of books boldly now from the Octaviuspublic library, and could swim with a calm masteryand enjoyment upon the deep waters into which Draperand Lecky and Laing and the rest had hurled him. He dallied pleasurably, a little languorously, with a dozenaspects of the case against revealed religion, ranging fromthe mild heterodoxy of Andover's qualms to the rudeIngersoll's rollicking negation of God himself, as a womanof coquetry might play with as many would-be lovers. They amused him; they were all before him to choose;and he was free to postpone indefinitely the actof selection.  There was a sense of the luxurious in thisposition which softened bodily as well as mental fibres. He ceased to grow indignant at things below or outsidehis standards, and he bought a small book which treatedof the care of the hand and finger nails.Alice had accepted with deference his explanation thatshapely hands played so important a part in pulpit oratory. For that matter, she now accepted whatever he said or didwith admirable docility.  It was months since he couldremember her venturing upon a critical attitude toward him.She had not wished to leave home, for the seaside or anyother resort, during the summer, but had worked outsidein her garden more than usual.  This was inexpensive, and itseemed to do her as much good as a holiday could have done. Her new devotional zeal was now quite an odd thing;it had not slackened at all from the revival pitch. At the outset she had tried several times to talk with herhusband upon this subject.  He had discouraged conversationabout her soul and its welfare, at first obliquely, then,under compulsion, with some directness.  His thoughtswere absorbed, he said, by the contemplation of vast,abstract schemes of creation and the government of the universe,and it only diverted and embarrassed his mind to tryto fasten it upon the details of personal salvation. Thereafter the topic was not broached between them.She bestowed a good deal of attention, too, upon her piano. The knack of a girlish nimbleness of touch had returnedto her after a few weeks, and she made music which Theronsupposed was very good--for her.  It pleased him,at all events, when he sat and listened to it; but he hada far greater pleasure, as he listened, in dwelling uponthe memories of the yellow and blue room which the soundsalways brought up.  Although three months had passed,Thurston's had never asked for the first payment on the piano,or even sent in a bill.  This impressed him as beingpeculiarly graceful behavior on his part, and he recognizedits delicacy by not going near Thurston's at all.An hour's sharp walk, occasionally broken by shortcuts across open pastures, but for the most part onforest paths, brought Theron to the brow of a small knoll,free from underbrush, and covered sparsely withbeech-trees. The ground was soft with moss and thepowdered remains of last year's foliage; the leaves abovehim were showing the first yellow stains of autumn. A sweet smell of ripening nuts was thick upon the air,and busy rustlings and chirpings through the stillness toldhow the chipmunks and squirrels were attending to their harvest.Theron had no ears for these noises of the woodland. He had halted, and was searching through the littlevistas offered between the stout gray trunks of thebeeches for some sign of a more sophisticated sort. Yes! there were certainly voices to be heard, down inthe hollow.  And now, beyond all possibility of mistake,there came up to him the low, rhythmic throb of music. It was the merest faint murmur of music, made up almostwholly of groaning bass notes, but it was enough. He moved down the slope, swiftly at first, then withincreasing caution.  The sounds grew louder as he advanced,until he could hear the harmony of the other stringsin its place beside the uproar of the big fiddles,and distinguish from both the measured noise of many feetmoving as one.He reached a place from which, himself unobserved,he could overlook much of what he had come to see.The bottom of the glade below him lay out in the full sunshine,as flat and as velvety in its fresh greenness as a garden lawn. Its open expanse was big enough to accommodate severaldistinct crowds, and here the crowds were--one massed aboutan enclosure in which young men were playing at football,another gathered further off in a horse-shoe curve atthe end of a baseball diamond, and a third throngingat a point where the shade of overhanging woods began,focussed upon a centre of interest which Theron couldnot make out.  Closer at hand, where a shallow streamrippled along over its black-slate bed, some little boys,with legs bared to the thighs, were paddling about,under the charge of two men clad in long black gowns. There were others of these frocked monitors scatteredhere and there upon the scene--pallid, close-shaven,monkish figures, who none the less wore modern hats,and superintended with knowledge the games of the period. Theron remembered that these were the Christian Brothers,the semi-monastic teachers of the Catholic school.And this was the picnic of the Catholics of Octavius. He gazed in mingled amazement and exhilaration uponthe spectacle.  There seemed to be literally thousandsof people on the open fields before him, and apparentlythere were still other thousands in the fringes of the woodsround about.  The noises which arose from this multitude--the shouts of the lads in the water, the playfulsqueals of the girls in the swings, the fused uproarof the more distant crowds, and above all the diligent,ordered strains of the dance-music proceeding fromsome invisible distance in the greenwood--charmed hisears with their suggestion of universal merriment. He drew a long breath--half pleasure, half wistful regret--as he remembered that other gathering in the forestwhich he had left behind.At any rate, it should be well behind him today, whatever themorrow might bring!  Evidently he was on the wrong sideof the circle for the headquarters of the festivities. He turned and walked to the right through the beeches,making a detour, under cover, of the crowds at play. At last he rounded the long oval of the clearing,and found himself at the very edge of that largest throngof all, which had been too far away for comprehensionat the beginning.  There was no mystery now.  A rough,narrow shed, fully fifty feet in length, imposed itselfin an arbitrary line across the face of this crowd,dividing it into two compact halves.  Inside this shed,protected all round by a waist-high barrier of boards,on top of which ran a flat, table-like covering, were twentymen in their shirt-sleeves, toiling ceaselessly to keepabreast of the crowd's thirst for beer.  The actionsof these bartenders greatly impressed Theron.  They movedlike so many machines, using one hand, apparently, to takemoney and give change, and with the other incessantlysweeping off rows of empty glasses, and tossing forwardin their place fresh, foaming glasses five at a time. Hundreds of arms and hands were continually stretched out,on both sides of the shed, toward this streaming bar,and through the babel of eager cries rose without pause theracket of mallets tapping new kegs.Theron had never seen any considerable number of hisfellow-citizens engaged in drinking lager beer before. His surprise at the facility of those behind the barbegan to yield, upon observation, to a profound amazementat the thirst of those before it.  The same peopleseemed to be always in front, emptying the glassesfaster than the busy men inside could replenish them,and clamoring tirelessly for more.  Newcomers had toforce their way to the bar by violent efforts, and oncethere they stayed until pushed bodily aside.  There wereactually women to be seen here and there in the throng,elbowing and shoving like the rest for a place at the front. Some of the more gallant young men fought their way outward,from time to time, carrying for safety above their headsglasses of beer which they gave to young and pretty girlsstanding on the fringe of the crowd, among the trees.Everywhere a remarkable good-humor prevailed. Once a sharp fight broke out, just at the end of the barnearest Theron, and one young man was knocked down. A rush of the onlookers confused everything before theminister's eyes for a minute, and then he saw the aggrievedcombatant up on his legs again, consenting under the kindlypressure of the crowd to shake hands with his antagonist,and join him in more beer.  The incident caught his fancy. There was something very pleasingly human, he thought,in this primitive readiness to resort to fisticuffs,and this frank and genial reconciliation.Perhaps there was something contagious in this wholesaledisplay of thirst, for the Rev. Mr. Ware became consciousof a notion that he should like to try a glass of beer. He recalled having heard that lager was really a mostharmless beverage.  Of course it was out of the questionthat he should show himself at the bar.  Perhaps some onewould bring him out a glass, as if he were a pretty girl. He looked about for a possible messenger.  Turning, he foundhimself face to face with two smiling people, into whoseeyes he stared for an instant in dumfounded blankness. Then his countenance flashed with joy, and he held out bothhands in greeting.  It was Father Forbes and Celia."We stole down upon you unawares," said the priest,in his cheeriest manner.  He wore a brown straw hat,and loose clothes hardly at all clerical in form,and had Miss Madden's arm drawn lightly within his own. "We could barely believe our eyes--that it could be youwhom we saw, here among the sinners!""I am in love with your sinners," responded Theron,as he shook hands with Celia, and trusted himself to lookfully into her eyes.  "I've had five days of the saints,over in another part of the woods, and they've bored thehead off me."CHAPTER XXIIIAt the command of Father Forbes, a lad who was loiteringnear them went down through the throng to the bar,and returned with three glasses of beer.  It pleasedthe Rev. Mr. Ware that the priest should have taken itfor granted that he would do as the others did.  He knockedhis glass against theirs in compliance with a custom strangeto him, but which they seemed to understand very well. The beer itself was not so agreeable to the taste as hehad expected, but it was cold and refreshing.When the boy had returned with the glasses, the threestood for a moment in silence, meditatively watchingthe curious scene spread below them.  Beyond the bar,Theron could catch now through the trees regularlyrecurring glimpses of four or five swings in motion. These were nearest him, and clearest to the visionas well, at the instant when they reached their highestforward point.  The seats were filled with girls,some of them quite grown young women, and their curvingupward sweep through the air was disclosing at its climaxa remarkable profusion of white skirts and black stockings. The sight struck him as indecorous in the extreme, and heturned his eyes away.  They met Celia's; and there wassomething latent in their brown depths which prompted him,after a brief dalliance of interchanging glances, to lookagain at the swings."That old maid Curran is really too ridiculous,with those white stockings of hers," remarked Celia;"some friend ought to tell her to dye them.""Or pad them," suggested Father Forbes, with a gaylittle chuckle.  "I daresay the question of swings and ladies'stockings hardly arises with you, over at the camp-meeting, Mr. Ware?"Theron laughed aloud at the conceit.  "I should say not!"he replied."I'm just dying to see a camp-meeting!" said Celia. "You hear such racy accounts of what goes on at them.""Don't go, I beg of you!" urged Theron, with doleful emphasis. "Don't let's even talk about them.  I should like to feelthis afternoon as if there was no such thing withina thousand miles of me as a camp-meeting. Do you know,all this interests me enormously.  It is a revelation to meto see these thousands of good, decent, ordinary people,just frankly enjoying themselves like human beings. I suppose that in this whole huge crowd there isn'ta single person who will mention the subject of his soulto any other person all day long.""I should think the assumption was a safe one," said thepriest, smilingly, "unless," he added on afterthought,"it be by way of a genial profanity.  There used to besome old Clare men who said 'Hell to my soul!' when theymissed at quoits, but I haven't heard it for a long time. I daresay they're all dead.""I shall never forget that death-bed--where I saw you first,"remarked Theron, musingly.  "I date from that experiencea whole new life.  I have been greatly struck lately,in reading our 'Northern Christian Advocate' to seein the obituary notices of prominent Methodists how overand over again it is recorded that they got religionin their youth through being frightened by some illnessof their own, or some epidemic about them.  The cholerayear of 1832 seems to have made Methodists hand over fist. Even to this day our most successful revivalists,those who work conversions wholesale wherever they go,do it more by frightful pictures of hell-fire surroundingthe sinner's death-bed than anything else.  You couldhear the same thing at our camp-meeting tonight, if youwere there.""There isn't so much difference as you think,"said Father Forbes, dispassionately.  "Your people keepexamining their souls, just as children keep pulling upthe bulbs they have planted to see are there any roots yet. Our people are more satisfied to leave their souls alone,once they have been planted, so to speak, by baptism. But fear of hell governs them both, pretty much alike. As I remember saying to you once before, there is reallynothing new under the sun.  Even the saying isn't new. Though there seem to have been the most tremendous changesin races and civilizations and religions, stretching overmany thousands of years, yet nothing is in fact alteredvery much.  Where religions are concerned, the human raceare still very like savages in a dangerous wood in the dark,telling one another ghost stories around a camp-fire. Theyhave always been like that.""What nonsense!" cried Celia.  "I have no patience withsuch gloomy rubbish.  The Greeks had a religion fullof beauty and happiness and light-heartedness, and theyweren't frightened of death at all.  They made the imageof death a beautiful boy, with a torch turned down. Their greatest philosophers openly preached and practisedthe doctrine of suicide when one was tired of life. Our own early Church was full of these broad and beautifulGreek ideas.  You know that yourself!  And it was onlywhen your miserable Jeromes and Augustines and Cyrilsbrought in the abominable meannesses and crueltiesof the Jewish Old Testament, and stamped out the saneand lovely Greek elements in the Church, that Christiansbecame the poor, whining, cowardly egotists they are,troubling about their little tin-pot souls, and scaringthemselves in their churches by skulls and crossbones.""My dear Celia," interposed the priest, patting hershoulder gently, "we will have no Greek debate today. Mr. Ware has been permitted to taboo camp-meetings,and I claim the privilege to cry off on Greeks.  Look atthose fellows down there, trampling over one anotherto get more beer.  What have they to do with Athens,or Athens with them?  I take it, Mr. Ware," he went on,with a grave face but a twinkling eye, "that what we areobserving here in front of us is symbolical of a greatethical and theological revolution, which in time will modifyand control the destiny of the entire American people. You see those young Irishmen there, struggling like pigs ata trough to get their fill of German beer.  That signifiesa conquest of Teuton over Kelt more important and far-reachingin its results than the landing of Hengist and Horsa. The Kelt has come to grief heretofore--or at least beenforced to play second fiddle to other races--because helacked the right sort of a drink.  He has in his blood anexcess of impulsive, imaginative, even fantastic qualities. It is much easier for him to make a fool of himself,to begin with, than it is for people of slower wits andmore sluggish temperaments.  When you add whiskey to that,or that essence of melancholia which in Ireland they call'porther,' you get the Kelt at his very weakest and worst. These young men down there are changing all that. They have discovered lager.  Already many of themcan outdrink the Germans at their own beverage. The lager-drinking Irishman in a few generations willbe a new type of humanity--the Kelt at his best. He will dominate America.  He will be THE American. And his church--with the Italian element thrown clean outof it, and its Pope living, say, in Baltimore or Georgetown--will be the Church of America.""Let us have some more lager at once," put in Celia. "This revolution can't be hurried forward too rapidly."Theron could not feel sure how much of the priest's discoursewas in jest, how much in earnest.  "It seems to me,"he said, "that as things are going, it doesn't look muchas if the America of the future will trouble itself aboutany kind of a church.  The march of science must very soonproduce a universal scepticism.  It is in the nature ofhuman progress.  What all intelligent men recognize today,the masses must surely come to see in time."Father Forbes laughed outright this time.  "My dearMr. Ware," he said, as they touched glasses again,and sipped the fresh beer that had been brought them,"of all our fictions there is none so utterly baselessand empty as this idea that humanity progresses. The savage's natural impression is that the world hesees about him was made for him, and that the restof the universe is subordinated to him and his world,and that all the spirits and demons and gods occupythemselves exclusively with him and his affairs. That idea was the basis of every pagan religion, and itis the basis of the Christian religion, simply because itis the foundation of human nature.  That foundation is justas firm and unshaken today as it was in the Stone Age. It will always remain, and upon it will always be builtsome kind of a religious superstructure.  'Intelligent men,'as you call them, really have very little influence,even when they all pull one way.  The people as a wholesoon get tired of them.  They give too much trouble. The most powerful forces in human nature are self-protectionand inertia.  The middle-aged man has found out that thechief wisdom in life is to bend to the pressures about him,to shut up and do as others do.  Even when he thinks hehas rid his own mind of superstitions, he sees that hewill best enjoy a peaceful life by leaving other peoples'superstitions alone.  That is always the ultimate view ofthe crowd.""But I don't see," observed Theron, "granting that allthis is true, how you think the Catholic Church will comeout on top.  I could understand it of Unitarianism,or Universalism, or the Episcopal Church, where nobodyseems to have to believe particularly in anything exceptthe beauty of its burial service, but I should think the veryrigidity of the Catholic creed would make it impossible. There everything is hard and fast; nothing is elastic;there is no room for compromise.""The Church is always compromising," explained the priest,"only it does it so slowly that no one man lives longenough to quite catch it at the trick.  No; the greatsecret of the Catholic Church is that it doesn't debatewith sceptics.  No matter what points you make against it,it is never betrayed into answering back.  It simply saysthese things are sacred mysteries, which you are quitefree to accept and be saved, or reject and be damned. There is something intelligible and fine about an attitudelike that.  When people have grown tired of their absurdand fruitless wrangling over texts and creeds which,humanly speaking, are all barbaric nonsense, they willcome back to repose pleasantly under the Catholic roof,in that restful house where things are taken for granted. There the manners are charming, the service excellent,the decoration and upholstery most acceptable to the eye,and the music"--he made a little mock bow here to Celia--"themusic at least is divine.  There you have nothing to do butbe agreeable, and avoid scandal, and observe the convenances. You are no more expected to express doubts about theImmaculate Conception than you are to ask the lady whomyou take down to dinner how old she is.  Now that is, as Ihave said, an intelligent and rational church for peopleto have.  As the Irish civilize themselves--you observethem diligently engaged in the process down below there--and the social roughness of their church becomes softenedand ameliorated, Americans will inevitably be attractedtoward it.  In the end, it will embrace them all, and bemodified by them, and in turn influence their development,till you will have a new nation and a new national church,each representative of the other.""And all this is to be done by lager beer!" Theron ventured to comment, jokingly.  He was consciousof a novel perspiration around the bridge of his nose,which was obviously another effect of the drink.The priest passed the pleasantry by.  "No," he said seriously;"what you must see is that there must always be a church. If one did not exist, it would be necessary to invent it. It is needed, first and foremost, as a police force. It is needed, secondly, so to speak, as a fire insurance. It provides the most even temperature and pure atmospherefor the growth of young children.  It furnishes the bestobtainable social machinery for marrying off one's daughters,getting to know the right people, patching up quarrels,and so on.  The priesthood earn their salaries asthe agents for these valuable social arrangements. Their theology is thrown in as a sort of intellectualdiversion, like the ritual of a benevolent organization. There are some who get excited about this part of it,just as one hears of Free-Masons who believe that the sunrises and sets to exemplify their ceremonies.  Others taketheir duties more quietly, and, understanding justwhat it all amounts to, make the best of it, like youand me."Theron assented to the philosophy and the complimentby a grave bow.  "Yes, that is the idea--to make the bestof it," he said, and fastened his regard boldly thistime upon the swings."We were both ordained by our bishops," continued the priest,"at an age when those worthy old gentlemen would not havetrusted our combined wisdom to buy a horse for them.""And I was married," broke in Theron, with an eagernessalmost vehement, "when I had only just been ordained! At the worst, YOU had only the Church fastened upon your back,before you were old enough to know what you wanted. It is easy enough to make the best of THAT, but it isdifferent with me."A marked silence followed this outburst.  The Rev. Mr. Warehad never spoken of his marriage to either of thesefriends before; and something in their manner seemedto suggest that they did not find the subject inviting,now that it had been broached.  He himself was filledwith a desire to say more about it.  He had never clearlyrealized before what a genuine grievance it was. The moisture at the top of his nose merged itself intotears in the corners of his eyes, as the cruel enormityof the sacrifice he had made in his youth rose before him. His whole life had been fettered and darkened by it. He turned his gaze from the swings toward Celia, to claimthe sympathy he knew she would feel for him.But Celia was otherwise engaged.  A young man hadcome up to her--a tall and extremely thin young man,soberly dressed, and with a long, gaunt, hollow-eyed face,the skin of which seemed at once florid and pale. He had sandy hair and the rough hands of a workman;but he was speaking to Miss Madden in the confidentialtones of an equal."I can do nothing at all with him," this newcomer saidto her.  "He'll not be said by me.  Perhaps he'd listento you!""It's likely I'll go down there!" said Celia. "He may do what he likes for all me!  Take my advice,Michael, and just go your way, and leave him to himself. There was a time when I would have taken out my eyesfor him, but it was love wasted and thrown away. After the warnings he's had, if he WILL bring troubleon himself, let's make it no affair of ours."Theron had found himself exchanging glances of inquirywith this young man.  "Mr. Ware," said Celia, here, "let meintroduce you to my brother Michael--my full brother."Mr. Ware remembered him now, and began, in response to theother's formal bow, to say something about their havingmet in the dark, inside the church.  But Celia held upher hand.  "I'm afraid, Mr. Ware," she said hurriedly,"that you are in for a glimpse of the family skeleton. I will apologize for the infliction in advance."Wonderingly, Theron followed her look, and saw anotheryoung man who had come up the path from the crowd below,and was close upon them.  The minister recognized in hima figure which had seemed to be the centre of almost everygroup about the bar that he had studied in detail.  He wasa small, dapper, elegantly attired youth, with dark hair,and the handsome, regularly carved face of an actor. He advanced with a smiling countenance and unsteady step--his silk hat thrust back upon his head, his frock-coat andvest unbuttoned, and his neckwear disarranged--and salutedthe company with amiability."I saw you up here, Father Forbes," he said, with athickened and erratic utterance.  "Whyn't you comedown and join us?  I'm setting 'em up for everybody. You got to take care of the boys, you know.  I'll blowin the last cent I've got in the world for the boys,every time, and they know it.  They're solider for methan they ever were for anybody.  That's how it is. If you stand by the boys, the boys'll stand by you. I'm going to the Assembly for this district, and they ain'tnobody can stop me.  The boys are just red hot for me. Wish you'd come down, Father Forbes, and address a fewwords to the meeting--just mention that I'm a candidate,and say I'm bound to win, hands down.  That'll make you solidwith the boys, and we'll be all good fellows together. Come on down!"The priest affably disengaged his arm from the clutchwhich the speaker had laid upon it, and shook his headin gentle deprecation.  "No, no; you must excuse me,Theodore," he said.  "We mustn't meddle in politics, you know.""Politics be damned!" urged Theodore, grabbing the priest'sother arm, and tugging at it stoutly to pull him downthe path.  "I say, boys" he shouted to those below,"here's Father Forbes, and he's going to come downand address the meeting.  Come on, Father!  Come down,and have a drink with the boys!"It was Celia who sharply pulled his hand away from thepriest's arm this time.  "Go away with you!" she snappedin low, angry tones at the intruder.  "You should beashamed of yourself!  If you can't keep sober yourself,you can at least keep your hands off the priest.  I shouldthink you'd have more decency, when you're in such a stateas this, than to come where I am.  If you've no respectfor yourself, you might have that much respect for me! And before strangers, too!"Oh, I mustn't come where YOU are, eh?" remarked the peccantTheodore, straightening himself with an elaborate effort. "You've bought these woods, have you?  I've got a hundredfriends here, all the same, for every one you'll everhave in your life, Red-head, and don't you forget it.""Go and spend your money with them, then, and don't comeinsulting decent people," said Celia."Before strangers, too!" the young man called out,with beery sarcasm.  "Oh, we'll take care of thestrangers all right."  He had not seemed to be aware ofTheron's presence, much less his identity, before; but heturned to him now with a knowing grin.  "I'm runningfor the Assembly, Mr. Ware," he said, speaking loudlyand with deliberate effort to avoid the drunken elisionsand comminglings to which his speech tended, "and I wantyou to fix up the Methodists solid for me.  I'm goingto drive over to the camp-meeting tonight, me and someof the boys in a barouche, and I'll put a twenty-dollarbill on their plate.  Here it is now, if you want to see it."As the young man began fumbling in a vest-pocket, Therongathered his wits together."You'd better not go this evening," he said, as convincinglyas he knew how; "because the gates will be closed very early,and the Saturday-evening services are of a particularlyspecial nature, quite reserved for those living on the grounds.""Rats!" said Theodore, raising his head, and abandoningthe search for the bill.  "Why don't you speak outlike a man, and say you think I'm too drunk?""I don't think that is a question which need arisebetween us, Mr. Madden," murmured Theron, confusedly."Oh, don't you make any mistake!  A hell of a lot ofquestions arise between us, Mr. Ware," cried Theodore,with a sudden accession of vigor in tone and mien. "And one of 'em is--go away from me, Michael!--one of 'em is,I say, why don't you leave our girls alone?  They've gottheir own priests to make fools of themselves over,without any sneak of a Protestant parson coming meddlinground them.  You're a married man into the bargain;and you've got in your house this minute a piano that mysister bought and paid for.  Oh, I've seen the entryin Thurston's books!  You have the cheek to talk to meabout being drunk--why--"These remarks were never concluded, for Father Forbeshere clapped a hand abruptly over the offending mouth,and flung his free arm in a tight grip around the youngman's waist.  "Come with me, Michael!" he said, and the twomen led the reluctant and resisting Theodore at a sharppace off into the woods.Theron and Celia stood and watched them disappear amongthe undergrowth.  "It's the dirty Foley blood that's in him,"he heard her say, as if between clenched teeth.The girl's big brown eyes, when Theron looked into them again,were still fixed upon the screen of foliage, and dilatedlike those of a Medusa mask.  The blood had gone away,and left the fair face and neck as white, it seemed to him,as marble.  Even her lips, fiercely bitten together,appeared colorless.  The picture of consuming and powerlessrage which she presented, and the shuddering tremorwhich ran over her form, as visible as the quivering trackof a gust of wind across a pond, awed and frightened him.Tenderness toward her helpless state came too, and uppermost. He drew her arm into his, and turned their backs uponthe picnic scene."Let us walk a little up the path into the woods," he said,"and get away from all this.""The further away the better," she answered bitterly,and he felt the shiver run through her again as she spoke.The methodical waltz-music from that unseen dancingplatform rose again above all other sounds.  They movedup the woodland path, their steps insensibly fallinginto the rhythm of its strains, and vanished from sightamong the trees.CHAPTER XXIVTheron and Celia walked in silence for some minutes,until the noises of the throng they had left behind were lost. The path they followed had grown indefinite among thegrass and creepers of the forest carpet; now it seemedto end altogether in a little copse of young birches,the delicately graceful stems of which were clusteredabout a parent stump, long since decayed and overgrownwith lichens and layers of thick moss.As the two paused, the girl suddenly sank upon her knees,then threw herself face forward upon the soft green barkwhich had formed itself above the roots of the ancientmother-tree. Her companion looked down in pained amazementat what he saw.  Her body shook with the violence ofrecurring sobs, or rather gasps of wrath and grief Her hands,with stiffened, claw-like fingers, dug into the mossand tangle of tiny vines, and tore them by the roots. The half-stifled sounds of weeping that arose from where herface grovelled in the leaves were terrible to his ears. He knew not what to say or do, but gazed in resourcelesssuspense at the strange figure she made.  It seemed acruelly long time that she lay there, almost at his feet,struggling fiercely with the fury that was in her.All at once the paroxysms passed away, the sounds of wildweeping ceased.  Celia sat up, and with her handkerchiefwiped the tears and leafy fragments from her face. She rearranged her hat and the braids of her hair with swift,instinctive touches, brushed the woodland debris fromher front, and sprang to her feet."I'm all right now," she said briskly.  There was palpableeffort in her light tone, and in the stormy sort of smilewhich she forced upon her blotched and perturbed countenance,but they were only too welcome to Theron's anxious mood."Thank God!" he blurted out, all radiant with relief. "I feared you were going to have a fit--or something."Celia laughed, a little artificially at first, then with agenuine surrender to the comic side of his visible fright. The mirth came back into the brown depths of her eyes again,and her face cleared itself of tear-stains and the marksof agitation.  "I AM a nice quiet party for a Methodistminister to go walking in the woods with, am I not?"she cried, shaking her skirts and smiling at him."I am not a Methodist minister--please!" answered Theron--"atleast not today--and here--with you!  I am just a man--nothing more--a man who has escaped from lifelong imprisonment,and feels for the first time what it is to be free!""Ah, my friend," Celia said, shaking her head slowly,"I'm afraid you deceive yourself.  You are not by anymeans free.  You are only looking out of the windowof your prison, as you call it.  The doors are locked,just the same.""I will smash them!" he declared, with confidence. "Or for that matter, I HAVE smashed them--battered themto pieces.  You don't realize what progress I have made,what changes there have been in me since that night,you remember that wonderful night!  I am quite another being,I assure you!  And really it dates from way beyond that--why, from the very first evening, when I came to you inthe church.  The window in Father Forbes' room was open,and I stood by it listening to the music next door,and I could just faintly see on the dark window acrossthe alley-way a stained-glass picture of a woman. I suppose it was the Virgin Mary.  She had hair like yours,and your face, too; and that is why I went into the churchand found you.  Yes, that is why."Celia regarded him with gravity.  "You will get yourselfinto great trouble, my friend," she said."That's where you're wrong," put in Theron.  "Not that I'dmind any trouble in this wide world, so long as you calledme 'my friend,' but I'm not going to get into any at all. I know a trick worth two of that.  I've learned to be a showman. I can preach now far better than I used to, and I can getthrough my work in half the time, and keep on the rightside of my people, and get along with perfect smoothness. I was too green before.  I took the thing seriously,and I let every mean-fisted curmudgeon and crazy fanaticworry me, and keep me on pins and needles.  I don'tdo that any more.  I've taken a new measure of life. I see now what life is really worth, and I'm goingto have my share of it.  Why should I deliberately denymyself all possible happiness for the rest of my days,simply because I made a fool of myself when I was inmy teens?  Other men are not eternally punished like that,for what they did as boys, and I won't submit to it either. I will be as free to enjoy myself as--as Father Forbes."Celia smiled softly, and shook her head again.  "Poor man,to call HIM free!" she said:  "why, he is bound hand and foot. You don't in the least realize how he is hedged about,the work he has to do, the thousand suspicious eyesthat watch his every movement, eager to bring the Bishopdown upon him.  And then think of his sacrifice--the great sacrifice of all--to never know what love means,to forswear his manhood, to live a forlorn, celibate life--you have no idea how sadly that appeals to a woman.""Let us sit down here for a little," said Theron;"we seem at the end of the path."  She seated herselfon the root-based mound, and he reclined at her side,with an arm carelessly extended behind her on the moss."I can see what you mean," he went on, after a pause. "But to me, do you know, there is an enormous fascinationin celibacy.  You forget that I know the reverse of the medal. I know how the mind can be cramped, the nerves harassed,the ambitions spoiled and rotted, the whole existencedarkened and belittled, by--by the other thing.  I havenever talked to you before about my marriage.""I don't think we'd better talk about it now," observed Celia. "There must be many more amusing topics."He missed the spirit of her remark.  "You are right,"he said slowly.  "It is too sad a thing to talk about. But there! it is my load, and I bear it, and there's nothingmore to be said."Theron drew a heavy sigh, and let his fingers toyabstractedly with a ribbon on the outer edge of Celia'spenumbra of apparel."No," she said.  "We mustn't snivel, and we mustn't sulk. When I get into a rage it makes me ill, and I storm my waythrough it and tear things, but it doesn't last long,and I come out of it feeling all the better.  I don't knowthat I've ever seen your wife.  I suppose she hasn't gotred hair?""I think it's a kind of light brown," answered Theron,with an effect of exerting his memory."It seems that you only take notice of hairin stained-glass windows," was Celia's comment."Oh-h!" he murmured reproachfully, "as if--as if--but I won't say what I was going to.""That's not fair!" she said.  The little touch of whimsicalmockery which she gave to the serious declaration wasdelicious to him.  "You have me at such a disadvantage! Here am I rattling out whatever comes into my head,exposing all my lightest emotions, and laying bare myvery heart in candor, and you meditate, you turn thingsover cautiously in your mind, like a second Machiavelli. I grow afraid of you; you are so subtle and mysterious inyour reserves."Theron gave a tug at the ribbon, to show the joy he hadin her delicate chaff.  "No, it is you who are secretive,"he said.  "You never told me about--about the piano."The word was out!  A minute before it had seemed incredibleto him that he should ever have the courage to utter it--but here it was.  He laid firm hold upon the ribbon,which it appeared hung from her waist, and drew himselfa trifle nearer to her.  "I could never have consentedto take it, I'm afraid," he went on in a low voice,if I had known.  And even as it is, I fear it won'tbe possible.""What are you afraid of?" asked Celia.  "Why shouldn't youtake it?  People in your profession never do get anythingunless it's given to them, do they?  I've always understoodit was like that.  I've often read of donation parties--that's what they're called, isn't it?--where everybodyis supposed to bring some gift to the minister. Very well, then, I've simply had a donation party of my own,that's all.  Unless you mean that my being a Catholicmakes a difference.  I had supposed you were quite freefrom that kind of prejudice.""So I am!  Believe me, I am!" urged Theron.  "When I'mwith you, it seems impossible to realize that there arepeople so narrow and contracted in their natures as to takeaccount of such things.  It is another atmosphere that Ibreathe near you.  How could you imagine that such a thought--about our difference of creed--would enter my head? In fact," he concluded with a nervous half-laugh, "thereisn't any such difference.  Whatever your religion is,it's mine too.  You remember--you adopted me as a Greek.""Did I?" she rejoined.  "Well, if that's the case,it leaves you without a leg to stand on.  I challenge youto find any instance where a Greek made any difficultiesabout accepting a piano from a friend.  But seriously--while we are talking about it--you introduced the subject: I didn't--I might as well explain to you that I hadno such intention, when I picked the instrument out. It was later, when I was talking to Thurston's peopleabout the price, that the whim seized me.  Now itis the one fixed rule of my life to obey my whims. Whatever occurs to me as a possibly pleasant thing to do,straight like a hash, I go and do it.  It is the onlyway that a person with means, with plenty of money,can preserve any freshness of character.  If they stopto think what it would be prudent to do, they get crustedover immediately.  That is the curse of rich people--they teach themselves to distrust and restrain everyimpulse toward unusual actions.  They get to feel that itis more necessary for them to be cautious and conventionalthan it is for others.  I would rather work at a wash-tubthan occupy that attitude toward my bank account.  I fightagainst any sign of it that I detect rising in my mind. The instant a wish occurs to me, I rush to gratify it. That is my theory of life.  That accounts for the piano;and I don't see that you've anything to say about it atall."It seemed very convincing, this theory of life. Somehow, the thought of Miss Madden's riches had neverbefore assumed prominence in Theron's mind.  Of courseher father was very wealthy, but it had not occurred to himthat the daughter's emancipation might run to the lengthof a personal fortune.  He knew so little of rich people and their ways!He lifted his head, and looked up at Celia with an awakenedhumility and awe in his glance.  The glamour of a separatebanking-account shone upon her.  Where the soft woodlandlight played in among the strands of her disordered hair,he saw the veritable gleam of gold.  A mysterious newsuggestion of power blended itself with the beauty ofher face, was exhaled in the faint perfume of her garments. He maintained a timorous hold upon the ribbon, wondering athis hardihood in touching it, or being near her at all.What surprises me," he heard himself saying, "is thatyou are contented to stay in Octavius.  I should thinkthat you would travel--go abroad--see the beautifulthings of the world, surround yourself with the luxuriesof big cities--and that sort of thing."Celia regarded the forest prospect straight in front of herwith a pensive gaze.  "Sometime--no doubt I will sometime,"she said abstractedly."One reads so much nowadays," he went on, "of Americanheiresses going to Europe and marrying dukes and noblemen. I suppose you will do that too.  Princes would fight oneanother for you."The least touch of a smile softened for an instantthe impassivity of her countenance.  Then she staredharder than ever at the vague, leafy distance.  "That isthe old-fashioned idea," she said, in a musing tone,"that women must belong to somebody, as if they were curios,or statues, or race-horses. You don't understand,my friend, that I have a different view.  I am myself,and I belong to myself, exactly as much as any man. The notion that any other human being could conceivably obtainthe slightest property rights in me is as preposterous,as ridiculous, as--what shall I say?--as the notionof your being taken out with a chain on your neck andsold by auction as a slave, down on the canal bridge. I should be ashamed to be alive for another day, if anyother thought were possible to me.""That is not the generally accepted view, I should think,"faltered Theron."No more is it the accepted view that young marriedMethodist ministers should sit out alone in thewoods with red-headed Irish girls.  No, my friend,let us find what the generally accepted views are,and as fast as we find them set our heels on them. There is no other way to live like real human beings. What on earth is it to me that other women crawl about onall-fours, and fawn like dogs on any hand that will bucklea collar onto them, and toss them the leavings of the table? I am not related to them.  I have nothing to do with them. They cannot make any rules for me.  If pride and dignityand independence are dead in them, why, so much the worsefor them!  It is no affair of mine.  Certainly it is noreason why I should get down and grovel also.  No; I atleast stand erect on my legs."Mr. Ware sat up, and stared confusedly, with round eyesand parted lips, at his companion.  Instinctively his braindragged forth to the surface those epithets which the doctorhad hurled in bitter contempt at her--"mad ass, a merebundle of egotism, ignorance, and red-headed lewdness." The words rose in their order on his memory, hard andsharp-edged, like arrow-heads. But to sit there, quite ather side; to breathe the same air, and behold the calmloveliness of her profile; to touch the ribbon of her dress--and all the while to hold these poisoned darts of abuselevelled in thought at her breast--it was monstrous. He could have killed the doctor at that moment. With an effort, he drove the foul things from his mind--scattered them back into the darkness.  He felt that hehad grown pale, and wondered if she had heard the groanthat seemed to have been forced from him in the struggle. Or was the groan imaginary?Celia continued to sit unmoved, composedly lookingupon vacancy.  Theron's eyes searched her face in vainfor any sign of consciousness that she had astounded andbewildered him.  She did not seem to be thinking of himat all.  The proud calm of her thoughtful countenancesuggested instead occupation with lofty and remoteabstractions and noble ideals.  Contemplating her,he suddenly perceived that what she had been sayingwas great, wonderful, magnificent.  An involuntary thrillran through his veins at recollection of her words. His fancy likened it to the sensation he used to feelas a youth, when the Fourth of July reader bawled forththat opening clause:  "When, in the course of human events,it becomes necessary," etc.  It was nothing less thananother Declaration of Independence he had been listening to.He sank again recumbent at her side, and stretched thearm behind her, nearer than before.  "Apparently, then,you will never marry."  His voice trembled a little."Most certainly not!" said Celia."You spoke so feelingly a little while ago," he ventured along,with hesitation, "about how sadly the notion of a priest'ssacrificing himself--never knowing what love meant--appealed to a woman.  I should think that the ideaof sacrificing herself would seem to her even sadder still.""I don't remember that we mentioned THAT," she replied. "How do you mean--sacrificing herself?"Theron gathered some of the outlying folds of her dressin his hand, and boldly patted and caressed them. "You, so beautiful and so free, with such fine talentsand abilities," he murmured; "you, who could have the wholeworld at your feet--are you, too, never going to knowwhat love means?  Do you call that no sacrifice?  To me itis the most terrible that my imagination can conceive."Celia laughed--a gentle, amused little laugh, in whichTheron's ears traced elements of tenderness.  "You mustregulate that imagination of yours," she said playfully. "It conceives the thing that is not.  Pray, when"--and here,turning her head, she bent down upon his face a gaze ofarch mock-seriousness--"pray, when did I describe myselfin these terms?  When did I say that I should never knowwhat love meant?"For answer Theron laid his head down upon his arm,and closed his eyes, and held his face against the draperiesencircling her.  "I cannot think!" he groaned.The thing that came uppermost in his mind, as it swayedand rocked in the tempest of emotion, was the strangereminiscence of early childhood in it all.  It waslike being a little boy again, nestling in an innocent,unthinking transport of affection against his mother's skirts. The tears he felt scalding his eyes were the spontaneous,unashamed tears of a child; the tremulous and exquisitejoy which spread, wave-like, over him, at once reposefuland yearning, was full of infantile purity and sweetness. He had not comprehended at all before what wellspringsof spiritual beauty, what limpid depths of idealism,his nature contained."We were speaking of our respective religions,"he heard Celia say, as imperturbably as if therehad been no digression worth mentioning."Yes," he assented, and moved his head so that helooked up at her back hair, and the leaves high above,mottled against the sky.  The wish to lie there, where nowhe could just catch the rose-leaf line of her under-chinas well, was very strong upon him.  "Yes?" he repeated."I cannot talk to you like that," she said; and he satup again shamefacedly."Yes--I think we were speaking of religions--some time ago,"he faltered, to relieve the situation.  The dreadfulthought that she might be annoyed began to oppress him."Well, you said whatever my religion was, it was yours too. That entitles you at least to be told what the religion is. Now, I am a Catholic."Theron, much mystified, nodded his head.  Could itbe possible--was there coming a deliberate suggestionthat he should become a convert?  "Yes--I know," he murmured."But I should explain that I am only a Catholic in the sensethat its symbolism is pleasant to me.  You remember whatSchopenhauer said--you cannot have the water by itself: you must also have the jug that it is in.  Very well;the Catholic religion is my jug.  I put into it the thingsI like.  They were all there long ago, thousands of years ago. The Jews threw them out; we will put them back again. We will restore art and poetry and the love of beauty,and the gentle, spiritual, soulful life.  The Greekshad it; and Christianity would have had it too, if ithadn't been for those brutes they call the Fathers. They loved ugliness and dirt and the thought of hell-fire.They hated women.  In all the earlier stages of the Church,women were very prominent in it.  Jesus himselfappreciated women, and delighted to have them about him,and talk with them and listen to them.  That wasthe very essence of the Greek spirit; and it breathedinto Christianity at its birth a sweetness and a gracewhich twenty generations of cranks and savages like Pauland Jerome and Tertullian weren't able to extinguish. But the very man, Cyril, who killed Hypatia, and thus beganthe dark ages, unwittingly did another thing which makesone almost forgive him.  To please the Egyptians, he securedthe Church's acceptance of the adoration of the Virgin. It is that idea which has kept the Greek spirit alive,and grown and grown, till at last it will rule the world. It was only epileptic Jews who could imagine a religion withoutsex in it.""I remember the pictures of the Virgin in your room,"said Theron, feeling more himself again.  "I wonderedif they quite went with the statues."The remark won a smile from Celia's lips."They get along together better than you suppose,"she answered.  "Besides, they are not all pictures of Mary. One of them, standing on the moon, is of Isis with the infantHorus in her arms.  Another might as well be Mahamie,bearing the miraculously born Buddha, or Olympiaswith her child Alexander, or even Perictione holdingher babe Plato--all these were similar cases, you know. Almost every religion had its Immaculate Conception. What does it all come to, except to show us that manturns naturally toward the worship of the maternal idea? That is the deepest of all our instincts--love of woman,who is at once daughter and wife and mother.  It is that thatmakes the world go round."Brave thoughts shaped themselves in Theron's mind,and shone forth in a confident yet wistful smile on his face."lt is a pity you cannot change estates with me for one minute,"he said, in steady, low tone.  "Then you would realizethe tremendous truth of what you have been saying. It is only your intellect that has reached out and graspedthe idea.  If you were in my place, you would discoverthat your heart was bursting with it as well."Celia turned and looked at him."I myself," he went on, "would not have known, half an hour ago,what you meant by the worship of the maternal idea. I am much older than you.  I am a strong, mature man. But when I lay down there, and shut my eyes--because thecharm and marvel of this whole experience had for the momentovercome me--the strangest sensation seized upon me. It was absolutely as if I were a boy again, a good,pure-minded, fond little child, and you were the motherthat I idolized."Celia had not taken her eyes from his face.  "I find myselfliking you better at this moment," she said, with gravity,"than I have ever liked you before."Then, as by a sudden impulse, she sprang to her feet. "Come!" she cried, her voice and manner all vivacityonce more, "we have been here long enough."Upon the instant, as Theron was more laboriously getting up,it became apparent to them both that perhaps they had beenthere too long.A boy with a gun under his arm, and two gray squirrelstied by the tails slung across his shoulder, stood atthe entrance to the glade, some dozen paces away,regarding them with undisguised interest.  Upon the discoverythat he was in turn observed, he resumed his interruptedprogress through the woods, whistling softly as he went,and vanished among the trees."Heavens above!" groaned Theron, shudderingly."Know him?" he went on, in answer to the glance of inquiry onhis companion's face.  "I should think I did!  He spades my--my wife's garden for her.  He used to bring our milk. He works in the law office of one of my trustees--the one who isn't friendly to me, but is very friendlyindeed with my--with Mrs. Ware.  Oh, what shall I do? It may easily mean my ruin!"Celia looked at him attentively.  The color had gone out ofhis face, and with it the effect of earnestness and mentalelevation which, a minute before, had caught her fancy. "Somehow, I fear that I do not like you quite so muchjust now, my friend," she remarked."In God's name, don't say that!" urged Theron. He raised his voice in agitated entreaty.  "You don'tknow what these people are--how they would leap at thebarest hint of a scandal about me.  In my position Iam a thousand times more defenceless than any woman. Just a single whisper, and I am done for!""Let me point out to you, Mr. Ware," said Celia, slowly,"that to be seen sitting and talking with me, whatever doubtsit may raise as to a gentleman's intellectual condition,need not necessarily blast his social reputation beyondall hope whatever."Theron stared at her, as if he had not grasped her meaning. Then he winced visibly under it, and put out his handsto implore her.  "Forgive me!  Forgive me!" he pleaded. "I was beside myself for the moment with the frightof the thing.  Oh, say you do forgive me, Celia!" He made haste to support this daring use of her name. "I have been so happy today--so deeply, so vastly happy--like the little child I spoke of--and that is so new in mylonely life--that--the suddenness of the thing--it just forthe instant unstrung me.  Don't be too hard on me for it! And I had hoped, too--I had had such genuine heartfeltpleasure in the thought--that, an hour or two ago, when youwere unhappy, perhaps it had been some sort of consolationto you that I was with you."Celia was looking away.  When he took her hand she did notwithdraw it, but turned and nodded in musing general assentto what he had said.  "Yes, we have both been unstrung,as you call it, today," she said, decidedly out of pitch. "Let each forgive the other, and say no more about it."She took his arm, and they retraced their stepsalong the path, again in silence.  The labored noiseof the orchestra, as it were, returned to meet them. They halted at an intersecting footpath."I go back to my slavery--my double bondage," said Theron,letting his voice sink to a sigh.  "But even if I am puton the rack for it, I shall have had one day of glory.""I think you may kiss me, in memory of that one day--or of a few minutes in that day," said Celia.Their lips brushed each other in a swift, almost perfunctory caress.Theron went his way at a hurried pace, the sobered tonesof her "good-bye" beating upon his brain with everymeasure of the droning waltz-music.PART IVCHAPTER XXVThe memory of the kiss abode with Theron.  Like Aaron's rod,it swallowed up one by one all competing thoughtsand recollections, and made his brain its slave.Even as he strode back through the woods to thecamp-meeting, it was the kiss that kept his feet in motion,and guided their automatic course.  All along the watchesof the restless night, it was the kiss that bore himsweet company, and wandered with him from one brokendream of bliss to another.  Next day, it was the kissthat made of life for him a sort of sunlit wonderland. He preached his sermon in the morning, and took hisappointed part in the other services of afternoonand evening, apparently to everybody's satisfaction: to him it was all a vision.When the beautiful full moon rose, this Sunday evening,and glorified the clearing and the forest with its mellowharvest radiance, he could have groaned with the burdenof his joy.  He went out alone into the light, and baredhis head to it, and stood motionless for a long time. In all his life, he had never been impelled as powerfullytoward earnest and soulful thanksgiving.  The impulseto kneel, there in the pure, tender moonlight, and lift upofferings of praise to God, kept uppermost in his mind. Some formless resignation restrained him from theact itself, but the spirit of it hallowed his mood. He gazed up at the broad luminous face of the satellite. "You are our God," he murmured.  "Hers and mine! You are the most beautiful of heavenly creatures, as she isof the angels on earth.  I am speechless with reverence foryou both."It was not until the camp-meeting broke up, four days later,and Theron with the rest returned to town, that the materialaspects of what had happened, and might be expectedto happen, forced themselves upon his mind.  The kisswas a child of the forest.  So long as Theron remainedin the camp, the image of the kiss, which was enshrinedin his heart and ministered to by all his thoughts,continued enveloped in a haze of sylvan mystery,like a dryad.  Suggestions of its beauty and holinesscame to him in the odors of the woodland, at the sightof wild flowers and water-lilies. When he walked alonein unfamiliar parts of the forest, he carried about with himthe half-conscious idea of somewhere coming upon a strange,hidden pool which mortal eye had not seen before--a deep,sequestered mere of spring-fed waters, walled in by rich,tangled growths of verdure, and bearing upon its virginbosom only the shadows of the primeval wilderness,and the light of the eternal skies.  His fancy dweltupon some such nook as the enchanted home of the fairythat possessed his soul.  The place, though he neverfound it, became real to him.  As he pictured it,there rose sometimes from among the lily-pads, stirringthe translucent depths and fluttering over the water'ssurface drops like gems, the wonderful form of a woman,with pale leaves wreathed in her luxuriant red hair,and a skin which gave forth light.With the homecoming to Octavius, his dreams began to takemore account of realities.  In a day or two he was wide awake,and thinking hard.  The kiss was as much as ever theceaseless companion of his hours, but it no longer insistedupon shrouding itself in vines and woodland creepers,or outlining itself in phosphorescent vagueness against mysticbackgrounds of nymph-haunted glades.  It advanced out intothe noonday, and assumed tangible dimensions and substance. He saw that it was related to the facts of his daily life,and had, in turn, altered his own relations to all these facts.What ought he to do?  What COULD he do?  Apparently, nothingbut wait.  He waited for a week--then for another week. The conclusion that the initiative had been left to himbegan to take shape in his mind.  From this it seemedbut a step to the passionate resolve to act at once.Turning the situation over and over in his anxiousthoughts, two things stood out in special prominence. One was that Celia loved him.  The other was that theboy in Gorringe's law office, and possibly Gorringe,and heaven only knew how many others besides, had reasonsfor suspecting this to be true.And what about Celia?  Side by side with the movingrapture of thinking about her as a woman, there rosethe substantial satisfaction of contemplating her asMiss Madden.  She had kissed him, and she was very rich. The things gradually linked themselves before his eyes. He tried a thousand varying guesses at what she proposedto do, and each time reined up his imagination by thereminder that she was confessedly a creature of whims,who proposed to do nothing, but was capable of all things.And as to the boy.  If he had blabbed what he saw, it wasincredible that somebody should not take the subject up,and impart a scandalous twist to it, and send it rollinglike a snowball to gather up exaggeration and foulinnuendo till it was big enough to overwhelm him. What would happen to him if a formal charge were preferredagainst him?  He looked it up in the Discipline. Of course, if his accusers magnified their meansuspicions and calumnious imaginings to the point offormulating a charge, it would be one of immorality. They could prove nothing; there was nothing to prove. At the worst, it was an indiscretion, which wouldinvolve his being admonished by his Presiding Elder. Or if these narrow bigots confused slanders with proofs,and showed that they intended to convict him, then it wouldbe open to him to withdraw from the ministry, in advanceof his condemnation.  His relation to the church wouldbe the same as if he had been expelled, but to the outerworld it would be different.  And supposing he did withdrawfrom the ministry?Yes; this was the important point.  What if he didabandon this mistaken profession of his?  On its mentalside the relief would be prodigious, unthinkable. But on the practical side, the bread-and-butter side? For some days Theron paused with a shudder when he reachedthis question.  The thought of the plunge into unknownmaterial responsibilities gave him a sinking heart. He tried to imagine himself lecturing, canvassing forbooks or insurance policies, writing for newspapers--and remained frightened.  But suddenly one day it occurredto him that these qualms and forebodings were sheer folly. Was not Celia rich?  Would she not with lightning swiftness drawforth that check-book, like the flashing sword of a championfrom its scabbard, and run to his relief?  Why, of course. It was absurd not to have thought of that before.He recalled her momentary anger with him, that afternoonin the woods, when he had cried out that discovery wouldmean ruin to him.  He saw clearly enough now that shehad been grieved at his want of faith in her protection. In his flurry of fright, he had lost sight of the fact that,if exposure and trouble came to him, she would naturallyfeel that she had been the cause of his martyrdom. It was plain enough now.  If he got into hot water,it would be solely on account of his having been seenwith her.  He had walked into the woods with her--"thefurther the better" had been her own words--out ofpure kindliness, and the desire to lead her away fromthe scene of her brother's and her own humiliation. But why amplify arguments?  Her own warm heart wouldtell her, on the instant, how he had been sacrificedfor her sake, and would bring her, eager and devoted,to his succor.That was all right, then.  Slowly, from this point,suggestions expanded themselves.  The future could be,if he willed it, one long serene triumph of love,and lofty intellectual companionship, and existencesoftened and enriched at every point by all that wealthcould command, and the most exquisite tastes suggest. Should he will it!  Ah! the question answered itself. But he could not enter upon this beckoning heaven ofa future until he had freed himself.  When Celia saidto him, "Come!" he must not be in the position to reply,"I should like to, but unfortunately I am tied by the leg." He should have to leave Octavius, leave the ministry,leave everything.  He could not begin too soon to facethese contingencies.Very likely Celia had not thought it out as far as this. With her, it was a mere vague "sometime I may." But the harder masculine sense, Theron felt,existed for the very purpose of correcting and givingpoint to these loose feminine notions of time and space. It was for him to clear away the obstacles, and mapthe plans out with definite decision.One warm afternoon, as he lolled in his easy-chair underthe open window of his study, musing upon the ever-shiftingphases of this vast, complicated, urgent problem,some chance words from the sidewalk in front cameto his ears, and, coming, remained to clarify his thoughts.Two ladies whose voices were strange to him had stopped--as so many people almost daily stopped--to admire the gardenof the parsonage.  One of them expressed her pleasurein general terms.  Said the other--"My husband declares those dahlias alone couldn'tbe matched for thirty dollars, and that some of thosegladiolus must have cost three or four dollars apiece. I know we've spent simply oceans of money on our garden,and it doesn't begin to compare with this.""It seems like a sinful waste to me," said her companion."No-o," the other hesitated.  "No, I don't think quite that--if you can afford it just as well as not.  But it doesseem to me that I'd rather live in a little better house,and not spend it ALL on flowers.  Just LOOK at that cactus!"The voices died away.  Theron sat up, with a look of arrestedthought upon his face, then sprang to his feet and movedhurriedly through the parlor to an open front window. Peering out with caution he saw that the two women recedingfrom view were fashionably dressed and evidently camefrom homes of means.  He stared after them in a blankway until they turned a corner.He went into the hall then, put on his frock-coat and hat,and stepped out into the garden.  He was consciousof having rather avoided it heretofore--not altogetherwithout reasons of his own, lying unexamined somewherein the recesses of his mind.  Now he walked slowly about,and examined the flowers with great attentiveness. The season was advancing, and he saw that many plantshad gone out of bloom.  But what a magnificent plenitudeof blossoms still remained!Thirty dollars' worth of dahlias--that was what the strangerhad said.  Theron hardly brought himself to credit the statement;but all the same it was apparent to even his uninformedeye that these huge, imbricated, flowering masses,with their extraordinary half-colors, must be unusual. He remembered that the boy in Gorringe's office had spokenof just one lot of plants costing thirty-one dollars andsixty cents, and there had been two other lots as well. The figures remained surprisingly distinct in his memory. It was no good deceiving himself any longer:  of coursethese were the plants that Gorringe had spent his money upon,here all about him.As he surveyed them with a sour regard, a cool breeze stirredacross the garden.  The tall, over-laden flower-spikesof gladioli bent and nodded at him; the hollyhocks andflaming alvias, the clustered blossoms on the standard roses,the delicately painted lilies on their stilt-like stems,fluttered in the wind, and seemed all bowing satiricallyto him.  "Yes, Levi Gorringe paid for us!"  He almostheard their mocking declaration.Out in the back-yard, where a longer day of sunshine dwelt,there were many other flowers, and notably a bed of geraniumswhich literally made the eye ache.  Standing at thisrear corner of the house, he caught the droning sound ofAlice's voice, humming a hymn to herself as she went abouther kitchen work.  He saw her through the open window. She was sweeping, and had a sort of cap on her headwhich did not add to the graces of her appearance. He looked at her with a hard glance, recalling as a freshgrievance the ten days of intolerable boredom he hadspent cooped up in a ridiculous little tent with her,at the camp-meeting. She must have realized at the timehow odious the enforced companionship was to him. Yes, beyond doubt she did.  It came back to him nowthat they had spoken but rarely to each other.  She hadnot even praised his sermon upon the Sabbath-question,which every one else had been in raptures over.  For thatmatter she no longer praised anything he did, and tookobvious pains to preserve toward him a distant demeanor. So much the better, he felt himself thinking.  If shechose to behave in that offish and unwifely fashion,she could blame no one but herself for its results.She had seen him, and came now to the window,watering-pot and broom in hand.  She put her head out,to breathe a breath of dustless air, and began as if shewould smile on him.  Then her face chilled and stiffened,as she caught his look."Shall you be home for supper?" she asked, in her iciest tone.He had not thought of going out before.  The question,and the manner of it, gave immediate urgency to the ideaof going somewhere.  "I may or I may not," he replied. "It is quite impossible for me to say."  He turned on hisheel with this, and walked briskly out of the yard and downthe street.It was the most natural thing that presently he shouldbe strolling past the Madden house, and letting a covertglance stray over its front and the grounds about it,as he loitered along.  Every day since his returnfrom the woods he had given the fates this chance ofbringing Celia to meet him, without avail.  He had hungabout in the vicinity of the Catholic church on severalevenings as well, but to no purpose.  The organ insidewas dumb, and he could detect no signs of Celia'spresence on the curtains of the pastorate next door. This day, too, there was no one visible at the homeof the Maddens, and he walked on, a little sadly. It was weary work waiting for the signal that never came.But there were compensations.  His mind reverted doggedly tothe flowers in his garden, and to Alice's behavior toward him. They insisted upon connecting themselves in his thoughts. Why should Levi Gorringe, a money-lender, and thereforethe last man in the world to incur reckless expenditure,go and buy perhaps a hundred dollars, worth of flowersfor his wife's garden?  It was time--high time--to facethis question.  And his experiencing religion afterward,just when Alice did, and marching down to the rail to kneelbeside her--that was a thing to be thought of, too.Meditation, it is true, hardly threw fresh light uponthe matter.  It was incredible, of course, that thereshould be anything wrong.  To even shape a thought of Alicein connection with gallantry would be wholly impossible. Nor could it be said that Gorringe, in his new capacityas a professing church-member, had disclosed any signof ulterior motives, or of insincerity.  Yet there thefacts were.  While Theron pondered them, their mystery,if they involved a mystery, baffled him altogether. But when he had finished, he found himself all the sameconvinced that neither Alice nor Gorringe would be freeto blame him for anything he might do.  He had groundsfor complaint against them.  If he did not himself knowjust what these grounds were, it was certain enoughthat THEY knew.  Very well, then, let them take theresponsibility for what happened.It was indeed awkward that at the moment, as Theronchanced to emerge temporarily from his brown-study, hiseyes fell full upon the spare, well-knit form of LeviGorringe himself, standing only a few feet away, in thestaircase entrance to his law office.  His lean face,browned by the summer's exposure, had a more Arabianaspect than ever.  His hands were in his pockets, and heheld an unlighted cigar between his teeth.  He lookedthe Rev. Mr. Ware over calmly, and nodded recognition.Theron had halted instinctively.  On the instant he wouldhave given a great deal not to have stopped at all. It was stupid of him to have paused, but it would not donow to go on without words of some sort.  He moved over tothe door-way, and made a half-hearted pretence of lookingat the photographs in one of the show-cases at its side. As Mr. Gorringe did not take his hands from his pockets,there was no occasion for any formal greeting."I had no idea that they took such good pictures in Octavius,"Theron remarked after a minute's silence, still bendingin examination of the photographs."They ought to; they charge New York prices,"observed the lawyer, sententiously.Theron found in the words confirmation of his feeling thatGorringe was not naturally a lavish or extravagant man. Rather was he a careful and calculating man, who spent moneyonly for a purpose.  Though the minister continued gazingat the stiff presentments of local beauties and swains,his eyes seemed to see salmon-hued hollyhocks and spottedlilies instead.  Suddenly a resolve came to him. He stood erect, and faced his trustee."Speaking of the price of things," he said, with an effortof arrogance in his measured tone, "I have never hadan opportunity before of mentioning the subject of theflowers you have so kindly furnished for my--for MY garden.""Why mention it now?" queried Gorringe, with nonchalance. He turned his cigar about with a movement of his lips,and worked it into the corner of his mouth.  He did not findit necessary to look at Theron at all."Because--" began Mr. Ware, and then hesitated--"because--well,it raises a question of my being under obligation,which I--""Oh, no, sir," said the lawyer; "put that out of your mind. You are no more under obligation to me than I am to you. Oh, no, make yourself easy about that.  Neither of usowes the other anything.""Not even good-will--I take that to be your meaning,"retorted Theron, with some heat."The words are yours, sir," responded Gorringe, coolly. "I do not object to them.""As you like," put in the other.  "If it be so, why,then all the more reason why I should, under the circumstances--""Under what circumstances?" interposed the lawyer. "Let us be clear about this thing as we go along. To what circumstances do you refer?"He had turned his eyes now, and looked Theron in the face. A slight protrusion of his lower jaw had given the cigaran upward tilt under the black mustache."The circumstances are that you have brought or sentto my garden a great many very expensive flower-plantsand bushes and so on.""And you object?  I had not supposed that clergymenin general--and you in particular--were so sensitive. Have donation parties, then, gone out of date?""I understand your sneer well enough," retorted Theron,"but that can pass.  The main point is, that you did methe honor to send these plants--or to smuggle them in--but never once deigned to hint to me that you had done so. No one told me.  Except by mere accident, I should not haveknown to this day where they came from."Mr. Gorringe twisted the cigar at another angle,with lines of grim amusement about the corner of his mouth. "I should have thought," he said with dry deliberation,"that possibly this fact might have raised in your mindthe conceivable hypothesis that the plants might not beintended for you at all.""That is precisely it, sir," said Theron.  There werepeople passing, and he was forced to keep his voice down. It would have been a relief, he felt, to shout.  "That is it--they were not intended for me.""Well, then, what are you talking about?"  The lawyer'sspeech had become abrupt almost to incivility."I think my remarks have been perfectly clear,"said the minister, with dignity.  It was a new experienceto be addressed in that fashion.  It occurred to himto add, "Please remember that I am not in the witness-box,to be bullied or insulted by a professional."Gorringe studied Theron's face attentively with a cold,searching scrutiny.  "You may thank your stars you're not!"he said, with significance.What on earth could he mean?  The words and the menacingtone greatly impressed Theron.  Indeed, upon reflection,he found that they frightened him.  The disposition toadopt a high tone with the lawyer was melting away."I do not see," he began, and then deliberately allowedhis voice to take on an injured and plaintive inflection--"Ido not see why you should adopt this tone toward me--Brother Gorringe."The lawyer scowled, and bit sharply into the cigar,but said nothing."If I have unconsciously offended you in any way," Theron went on,"I beg you to tell me how.  I liked you from the beginningof my pastorate here, and the thought that latterly weseemed to be drifting apart has given me much pain. But now it is still more distressing to find you actuallydisposed to quarrel with me.  Surely, Brother Gorringe,between a pastor and a probationer who--""No," Gorringe broke in; "quarrel isn't the word for it. There isn't any quarrel, Mr. Ware."  He stepped down fromthe door-stone to the sidewalk as he spoke, and stood faceto face with Theron.  Working-men with dinner-pails, andfactory girls, were passing close to them, and he loweredhis voice to a sharp, incisive half-whisper as he added,"It wouldn't be worth any grown man's while to quarrelwith so poor a creature as you are."Theron stood confounded, with an empty stare of bewildermenton his face.  It rose in his mind that the right thingto feel was rage, righteous indignation, fury; but forthe life of him, he could not muster any manly anger. The character of the insult stupefied him."I do not know that I have anything to say to you in reply,"he remarked, after what seemed to him a silence of minutes. His lips framed the words automatically, but theyexpressed well enough the blank vacancy of his mind. The suggestion that anybody deemed him a "poor creature"grew more astounding, incomprehensible, as it swelled inhis brain."No, I suppose not," snapped Gorringe.  "You're not thesort to stand up to men; your form is to go round thecorner and take it out of somebody weaker than yourself--a defenceless woman, for instance.""Oh--ho!" said Theron.  The exclamation had uttered itself. The sound of it seemed to clarify his muddled thoughts;and as they ranged themselves in order, he began to understand. "Oh--ho!" he said again, and nodded his head in tokenof comprehension.The lawyer, chewing his cigar with increased activity,glared at him.  "What do you mean?" he demanded peremptorily."Mean?" said the minister.  "Oh, nothing that I feelcalled upon to explain to you."It was passing strange, but his self-possession had all at oncereturned to him.  As it became more apparent that the lawyerwas losing his temper, Theron found the courage to turn upthe corners of his lips in show of a bitter little smileof confidence.  He looked into the other's dusky face,and flaunted this smile at it in contemptuous defiance. "It is not a subject that I can discuss with propriety--at this stage," he added."Damn you!  Are you talking about those flowers?""Oh, I am not talking about anything in particular,"returned Theron, "not even the curious choice of languagewhich my latest probationer seems to prefer.""Go and strike my name off the list!" said Gorringe,with rising passion.  "I was a fool to ever have it there. To think of being a probationer of yours--my God!""That will be a pity--from one point of view," remarked Theron,still with the ironical smile on his lips.  "You seemedto enter upon the new life with such deliberation and fixityof purpose, too!  I can imagine the regrets your withdrawalwill cause, in certain quarters.  I only hope that it willnot discourage those who accompanied you to the altar,and shared your enthusiasm at the time."  He had spokenthroughout with studied slowness and an insolent nicety of utterance."You had better go away!" broke forth Gorringe. "If you don't, I shall forget myself.""For the first time?" asked Theron.  Then, warned by the flashin the lawyer's eye, he turned on his heel and sauntered,with a painstaking assumption of a mind quite at ease,up the street.Gorringe's own face twitched and his veins tingledas he looked after him.  He spat the shapeless cigarout of his mouth into the gutter, and, drawing forthanother from his pocket, clenched it between his teeth,his gaze following the tall form of the Methodist ministertill it was merged in the crowd."Well, I'm damned!" he said aloud to himself.The photographer had come down to take in his showcases forthe night.  He looked up from his task at the exclamation,and grinned inquiringly."I've just been talking to a man," said the lawyer,"who's so much meaner than any other man I ever heardof that it takes my breath away.  He's got a wife that'sas pure and good as gold, and he knows it, and sheworships the ground he walks on, and he knows that too. And yet the scoundrel is around trying to sniff out someshadow of a pretext for misusing her worse than he'salready done.  Yes, sir; he'd be actually tickled to deathif he could nose up some hint of a scandal about her--something that he could pretend to believe, and work forhis own advantage to levy blackmail, or get rid of her,or whatever suited his book.  I didn't think there was suchan out-and-out cur on this whole footstool.  I almost wish,by God, I'd thrown him into the canal!""Yes, you lawyers must run against some pretty snide specimens,"remarked the photographer, lifting one of the cases from its sockets.CHAPTER XXVITheron spent half an hour in aimless strolling aboutthe streets.  From earliest boyhood his mind had alwaysworked most clearly when he walked alone.  Every mentalprocess which had left a mark upon his memory and his career--the daydreams of future academic greatness and famewhich had fashioned themselves in his brain as a farm lad;the meditations, raptures, and high resolves of hisstudent period at the seminary; the more notable sermonsand powerful discourse by which he had revealed the geniusthat was in him to astonished and delighted assemblages--all were associated in his retrospective thoughtswith solitary rambles.He had a very direct and vivid consciousness now that it wasgood to be on his legs, and alone.  He had never in his lifebeen more sensible of the charm of his own companionship. The encounter with Gorringe seemed to have cleared allthe clouds out of his brain, and restored lightness tohis heart.  After such an object lesson, the impossibilityof his continuing to sacrifice himself to a notionof duty to these low-minded and coarse-natured villagerswas beyond all argument.  There could no longer be anydoubt about his moral right to turn his back upon them,to wash his hands of the miserable combination of hypocrisyand hysterics which they called their spiritual life.And the question of Gorringe and Alice, that toostood precisely where he wanted it.  Even in hisown thoughts, he preferred to pursue it no further. Between them somewhere an offence of concealment,it might be of conspiracy, had been committed against him. It was no business of his to say more, or to think more. He rested his case simply on the fact, which could notbe denied, and which he was not in the least interestedto have explained, one way or the other.  The recollectionof Gorringe's obvious disturbance of mind was especiallypleasant to him.  He himself had been magnanimous almostto the point of weakness.  He had gone out of his wayto call the man "brother," and to give him an opportunityof behaving like a gentleman; but his kindly forbearancehad been wasted.  Gorringe was not the man to understandgenerous feelings, much less rise to their level. He had merely shown that he would be vicious if he knew how. It was more important and satisfactory to recall that hehad also shown a complete comprehension of the injuredhusband's grievance.  The fact that he had recognized itwas enough--was, in fact, everything.In the background of his thoughts Theron had carriedalong a notion of going and dining with Father Forbeswhen the time for the evening meal should arrive. The idea in itself attracted him, as a fitting capstoneto his resolve not to go home to supper.  It gave justthe right kind of character to his domestic revolt. But when at last he stood on the doorstep of the pastorate,waiting for an answer to the tinkle of the electric bell hehad heard ring inside, his mind contained only the singlethought that now he should hear something about Celia. Perhaps he might even find her there; but he put thatsuggestion aside as slightly unpleasant.The hag-faced housekeeper led him, as before,into the dining-room. It was still daylight, and he sawon the glance that the priest was alone at the table,with a book beside him to read from as he ate.Father Forbes rose and came forward, greeting his visitorwith profuse urbanity and smiles.  If there was a perfunctorynote in the invitation to sit down and share the meal,Theron did not catch it.  He frankly displayed his pleasureas he laid aside his hat, and took the chair opposite his host."It is really only a few months since I was here,in this room, before," he remarked, as the priest closedhis book and tossed it to one side, and the housekeeper camein to lay another place.  "Yet it might have been years,many long years, so tremendous is the differencethat the lapse of time has wrought in me.""I am afraid we have nothing to tempt you very much,Mr. Ware," remarked Father Forbes, with a gesture of hisplump white hand which embraced the dishes in the centreof the table.  "May I send you a bit of this boiled mutton? I have very homely tastes when I am by myself.""I was saying," Theron observed, after some moments hadpassed in silence, "that I date such a tremendous revolutionin my thoughts, my beliefs, my whole mind and character,from my first meeting with you, my first coming here. I don't know how to describe to you the enormous changethat has come over me; and I owe it all to you.""I can only hope, then, that it is entirelyof a satisfactory nature," said the priest, politely smiling."Oh, it is so splendidly satisfactory!" said Theron,with fervor.  "I look back at myself now with wonder and pity. It seems incredible that, such a little while ago,I should have been such an ignorant and unimaginative clodof earth, content with such petty ambitions and actuallyproud of my limitations.""And you have larger ambitions now?" asked the other. "Pray let me help you to some potatoes.  I am afraidthat ambitions only get in our way and trip us up. We clergymen are like street-car horses.  The moresteadily we jog along between the rails, the better it isfor us.""Oh, I don't intend to remain in the ministry,"declared Theron.  The statement seemed to him a little bald,now that he had made it; and as his companion liftedhis brows in surprise, he added stumblingly:  "That is,as I feel now, it seems to me impossible that I shouldremain much longer.  With you, of course, it is different. You have a thousand things to interest and pleasantlyoccupy you in your work and its ceremonies, so that merebelief or non-belief in the dogma hardly matters. But in our church dogma is everything.  If you takethat away, or cease to have its support, the restis intolerable, hideous."Father Forbes cut another slice of mutton for himself. "It is a pretty serious business to make such a change atyour time of life.  I take it for granted you will thinkit all over very carefully before you commit yourself." He said this with an almost indifferent air, which ratherchilled his listener's enthusiasm."Oh, yes,", Theron made answer; "I shall do nothing rash. But I have a good many plans for the future."Father Forbes did not ask what these were, and a brieffurther period of silence fell upon the table."I hope everything went off smoothly at the picnic,"Theron ventured, at last.  "I have not seen any of yousince then."The priest shook his head and sighed.  "No," he said. "It is a bad business.  I have had a great deal ofunhappiness out of it this past fortnight.  That youngman who was rude to you--of course it was mere drunken,irresponsible nonsense on his part--has got himself intoa serious scrape, I'm afraid.  It is being kept quitewithin the family, and we hope to manage so that it willremain there, but it has terribly upset his father andhis sister.  But that, after all, is not so hard to bearas the other affliction that has come upon the Maddens. You remember Michael, the other brother?  He seems to havetaken cold that evening, or perhaps over-exerted himself. He has been seized with quick consumption.  He will hardlylast till snow flies.""Oh, I am GRIEVED to hear that!"  Theron spoke withtremulous earnestness.  It seemed to him as if Michaelwere in some way related to him."It is very hard upon them all," the priest went on. "Michael is as sweet and holy a character as it is possiblefor any one to think of.  He is the apple of his father's eye. They were inseparable, those two.  Do you know the father,Mr. Madden?"Theron shook his head.  "I think I have seen him," he said. "A small man, with gray whiskers.""A peasant," said Father Forbes, "but with a heart of gold. Poor man! he has had little enough out of his riches. Ah, the West Coast people, what tragedies I have seen amongthem over here!  They have rudimentary lung organizations,like a frog's, to fit the mild, wet soft air theylive in.  The sharp air here kills them off like fliesin a frost.  Whole families go.  I should think thereare a dozen of old Jeremiah's children in the cemetery. If Michael could have passed his twenty-eighth year,there would have been hope for him, at least till histhirty-fifth. These pulmonary things seem to go by sevens,you know.""I didn't know," said Theron.  "It is very strange--and very sad."  His startled mind was busy, all at once,with conjectures as to Celia's age."The sister--Miss Madden--seems extremely strong,"he remarked tentatively."Celia may escape the general doom," said the priest. His guest noted that he clenched his shapely whitehand on the table as he spoke, and that his gentle,carefully modulated voice had a gritty hardness in its tone. "THAT would be too dreadful to think of," he added.Theron shuddered in silence, and strove to shut his mindagainst the thought."She has taken Michael's illness so deeply to heart,"the priest proceeded, "and devoted herself to himso untiringly that I get a little nervous about her. I have been urging her to go away and get a change of airand scene, if only for a few days.  She does not sleep well,and that is always a bad thing.""I think I remember her telling me once that sometimesshe had sleepless spells," said Theron.  "She said thatthen she banged on her piano at all hours, or draggedthe cushions about from room to room, like a wild woman. A very interesting young lady, don't you find her so?"Father Forbes let a wan smile play on his lips. "What, our Celia?" he said.  "Interesting!  Why, Mr. Ware,there is no one like her in the world.  She is as unique as--what shall I say?--as the Irish are among races. Her father and mother were both born in mud-cabins, and she--she might be the daughter of a hundred kings, except thatthey seem mostly rather under-witted than otherwise. She always impresses me as a sort of atavistic idealizationof the old Kelt at his finest and best.  There in Irelandyou got a strange mixture of elementary early peoples,walled off from the outer world by the four seas, and freeto work out their own racial amalgam on their own lines. They brought with them at the outset a great inheritanceof Eastern mysticism.  Others lost it, but the Irish,all alone on their island, kept it alive and broodedon it, and rooted their whole spiritual side in it. Their religion is full of it; their blood is full of it;our Celia is fuller of it than anybody else.  The Irelandof two thousand years ago is incarnated in her.  They arethe merriest people and the saddest, the most turbulent andthe most docile, the most talented and the most unproductive,the most practical and the most visionary, the most devoutand the most pagan.  These impossible contradictions warceaselessly in their blood.  When I look at Celia, I seemto see in my mind's eye the fair young-ancestral mother ofthem all."Theron gazed at the speaker with open admiration. "I love to hear you talk," he said simply.An unbidden memory flitted upward in his mind. Those were the very words that Alice had so often on herlips in their old courtship days.  How curious it was! He looked at the priest, and had a quaint sensationof feeling as a romantic woman must feel in the presenceof a specially impressive masculine personality. It was indeed strange that this soft-voiced, portlycreature in a gown, with his white, fat hands and hisfeline suavity of manner, should produce such a commandingand unique effect of virility.  No doubt this was a partof the great sex mystery which historically surroundedthe figure of the celibate priest as with an atmosphere. Women had always been prostrating themselves before it. Theron, watching his companion's full, pallid face in thelamp-light, tried to fancy himself in the priest's place,looking down upon these worshipping female forms. He wondered what the celibate's attitude really was. The enigma fascinated him.Father Forbes, after his rhetorical outburst, and been eating. He pushed aside his cheese-plate. "I grow enthusiasticon the subject of my race sometimes," he remarked,with the suggestion of an apology.  "But I make upfor it other times--most of the time--by scolding them. If it were not such a noble thing to be an Irishman,it would be ridiculous.""Ah," said Theron, deprecatingly, "who would not beenthusiastic in talking of Miss Madden?  What you saidabout her was perfect.  As you spoke, I was thinkinghow proud and thankful we ought to be for the privilegeof knowing her--we who do know her well--although of courseyour friendship with her is vastly more intimate than mine--than mine could ever hope to be."The priest offered no comment, and Theron went on: "I hardly know how to describe the remarkable impression shemakes upon me.  I can't imagine to myself any other youngwoman so brilliant or broad in her views, or so courageous. Of course, her being so rich makes it easier for her to dojust what she wants to do, but her bravery is astonishingall the same.  We had a long and very sympathetic talkin the woods, that day of the picnic, after we left you. I don't know whether she spoke to you about it?"Father Forbes made a movement of the head and eyeswhich seemed to negative the suggestion."Her talk," continued Theron, "gave me quite newideas of the range and capacity of the female mind. I wonder that everybody in Octavius isn't full of praiseand admiration for her talents and exceptional character. In such a small town as this, you would think she wouldbe the centre of attention--the pride of the place.""I think she has as much praise as is good for her,"remarked the priest, quietly."And here's a thing that puzzles me," pursued Mr. Ware. "I was immensely surprised to find that Dr. Ledsmardoesn't even think she is smart--or at least he professesthe utmost intellectual contempt for her, and sayshe dislikes her into the bargain.  But of course shedislikes him, too, so that's only natural.  But I can'tunderstand his denying her great ability."The priest smiled in a dubious way.  "Don't borrowunnecessary alarm about that, Mr. Ware," he said,with studied smoothness of modulated tones.  "These twogood friends of mine have much enjoyment out of the ideathat they are fighting for the mastery over my poorunstable character.  It has grown to be a habit with them,and a hobby as well, and they pursue it with tireless zest. There are not many intellectual diversions open to us here,and they make the most of this one.  It amuses them,and it is not without its charms for me, in my capacity asan interested observer.  It is a part of the game that theyshould pretend to themselves that they detest each other. In reality I fancy that they like each other very much. At any rate, there is nothing to be disturbed about."His mellifluous tones had somehow the effect of suggestingto Theron that he was an outsider and would better mindhis own business.  Ah, if this purring pussy-cat of apriest only knew how little of an outsider he really was! The thought gave him an easy self-control."Of course," he said, "our warm mutual friendship makesthe observation of these little individual vagariesmerely a part of a delightful whole.  I should notdream of discussing Miss Madden's confidences to me,or the doctor's either, outside our own little group."Father Forbes reached behind him and took from achair his black three-cornered cap with the tassel. "Unfortunately I have a sick call waiting me," he said,gathering up his gown and slowly rising."Yes, I saw the man sitting in the hall," remarked Theron,getting to his feet."I would ask you to go upstairs and wait," the priestwent on, "but my return, unhappily, is quite uncertain. Another evening I may be more fortunate.  I am leaving towntomorrow for some days, but when I get back--"The polite sentence did not complete itself.  Father Forbeshad come out into the hall, giving a cool nod to theworking-man, who rose from the bench as they passed,and shook hands with his guest on the doorstep.When the door had closed upon Mr. Ware, the priest turnedto the man.  "You have come about those frames," he said. "If you will come upstairs, I will show you the prints,and you can give me a notion of what can be done with them. I rather fancy the idea of a triptych in carved old English,if you can manage it."After the workman had gone away, Father Forbes puton slippers and an old loose soutane, lighted a cigar,and, pushing an easy-chair over to the reading lamp,sat down with a book.  Then something occurred to him,and he touched the house-bell at his elbow."Maggie," he said gently, when the housekeeper appeared atthe door, "I will have the coffee and FINE CHAMPAGNE up here,if it is no trouble.  And--oh, Maggie--I was compelled thisevening to turn the blameless visit of the framemaker intoa venial sin, and that involves a needless wear and tearof conscience.  I think that--hereafter--you understand?--I am not invariably at home when the Rev. Mr. Ware doesme the honor to call."CHAPTER XXVIIThat night brought the first frost of the seasonworth counting.  In the morning, when Theron came downstairs,his casual glance through the window caught a desolatepicture of blackened dahlia stalks and shrivelled blooms. The gayety and color of the garden were gone,and in their place was shabby and dishevelled ruin. He flung the sash up and leaned out.  The nipping autumnair was good to breathe.  He looked about him, surveyingthe havoc the frost had wrought among the flowers, and smiled.At breakfast he smiled again--a mirthless andcalculated smile.  "I see that Brother Gorringe'sflowers have come to grief over night," he remarked.Alice looked at him before she spoke, and saw on hisface a confirmation of the hostile hint in his voice. She nodded in a constrained way, and said nothing."Or rather, I should say, "Theron went on, with deliberatewords, "the late Brother Gorringe's flowers.""How do you mean--LATE" asked his wife, swiftly."Oh, calm yourself!" replied the husband.  He is not dead. He has only intimated to me his desire to sever his connection. I may add that he did so in a highly offensive manner.""I am very sorry," said Alice, in a low tone, and withher eyes on her plate."I took it for granted you would be grieved at his backsliding,"remarked Theron, making his phrases as pointed as he could. "He was such a promising probationer, and you tooksuch a keen interest in his spiritual awakening. But the frost has nipped his zeal--along with the hundredor more dollars' worth of flowers by which he testifiedhis faith.  I find something interesting in their havingbeen blasted simultaneously."Alice dropped all pretence of interest in her breakfast. With a flushed face and lips tightly compressed,she made a movement as if to rise from her chair. Then, changing her mind, she sat bolt upright and facedher husband."I think we had better have this out right now," she said,in a voice which Theron hardly recognized.  "You havebeen hinting round the subject long enough--too long. There are some things nobody is obliged to put up with,and this is one of them.  You will oblige me by saying outin so many words what it is you are driving at."The outburst astounded Theron.  He laid down his knifeand fork, and gazed at his wife in frank surprise. She had so accustomed him, of late, to a demeanor almostabject in its depressed docility that he had quiteforgotten the Alice of the old days, when she had spiritand courage enough for two, and a notable tongue of her own. The flash in her eyes and the lines of resolutionabout her mouth and chin for a moment daunted him. Then he observed by a flutter of the frill at her wristthat she was trembling."I am sure I have nothing to 'say out in so many words,'as you put it," he replied, forcing his voice into cool,impassive tones.  "I merely commented upon a coincidence,that was all.  If, for any reason under the sun, the subjectchances to be unpleasant to you, I have no earthly desireto pursue it.""But I insist upon having it pursued!" returned Alice. "I've had just all I can stand of your insinuationsand innuendoes, and it's high time we had some plain talk. Ever since the revival, you have been dropping sly,underhand hints about Mr. Gorringe and--and me.  Now I askyou what you mean by it."Yes, there was a shake in her voice, and he could seehow her bosom heaved in a tremor of nervousness. It was easy for him to be very calm."It is you who introduce these astonishing suggestions,not I," he replied coldly.  "It is you who coupleyour name with his--somewhat to my surprise, I admit--but let me suggest that we drop the subject.  You areexcited just now, and you might say things that youwould prefer to leave unsaid.  It would surely be betterfor all concerned to say no more about it."Alice, staring across the table at him with knitted brows,emitted a sharp little snort of indignation. "Well, I never!  Theron, I wouldn't have thought it of you!""There are so many things you wouldn't have thought,on such a variety of subjects," he observed, with ashow of resuming his breakfast.  "But why continue? We are only angering each other.""Never mind that," she replied, with more controlover her speech.  "I guess things have come to a passwhere a little anger won't do any harm.  I have a rightto insist on knowing what you mean by your insinuations."Theron sighed.  "Why will you keep harping on the thing?"he asked wearily.  "I have displayed no curiosity. I don't ask for any explanations.  I think I mentionedthat the man had behaved insultingly to me--but thatdoesn't matter.  I don't bring it up as a grievance. I am very well able to take care of myself I have nowish to recur to the incident in any way.  So far as Iam concerned, the topic is dismissed.""Listen to me!" broke in Alice, with eager gravity. She hesitated, as he looked up with a nod of attention,and reflected as well as she was able among her thoughtsfor a minute or two.  "This is what I want to sayto you.  Ever since we came to this hateful Octavius,you and I have been drifting apart--or no, that doesn'texpress it--simply rushing away from each other. It only began last spring, and now the space between usis so wide that we are worse than complete strangers. For strangers at least don't hate each other, and I've hada good many occasions lately to see that you positively dohate me--""What grotesque absurdity" interposed Theron, impatiently."No, it isn't absurdity; it's gospel truth," retorted Alice. "And--don't interrupt me--there have been times, too,when I have had to ask myself if I wasn't getting almostto hate you in return.  I tell you this frankly.""Yes, you are undoubtedly frank," commented the husband,toying with his teaspoon.  "A hypercritical personmight consider, almost too frank."Alice scanned his face closely while he spoke, and held herbreath as if in expectant suspense.  Her countenance cloudedonce more.  "You don't realize, Theron," she said gravely;"your voice when you speak to me, your look, your manner,they have all changed.  You are like another man--some man who never loved me, and doesn't even know me,much less like me.  I want to know what the end of itis to be.  Up to the time of your sickness last summer,until after the Soulsbys went away, I didn't let myselfget downright discouraged.  It seemed too monstrous forbelief that you should go away out of my life like that. It didn't seem possible that God could allow such a thing. It came to me that I had been lax in my Christian life,especially in my position as a minister's wife,and that this was my punishment.  I went to the altar,to intercede with Him, and to try to loose my burdenat His feet.  But nothing has come of it.  I got no helpfrom you.""Really, Alice," broke in Theron, "I explained over andover again to you how preoccupied I was--with the book--and affairs generally.""I got no assistance from Heaven either," she went on,declining the diversion he offered.  "I don't want totalk impiously, but if there is a God, he has forgotten me,his poor heart-broken hand-maiden.""You are talking impiously, Alice," observed her husband. "And you are doing me cruel injustice, into the bargain.""I only wish I were!" she replied; "I only wish to GodI were!""Well, then, accept my complete assurance that you ARE--that your whole conception of me, and of what you are pleasedto describe as my change toward you, is an entire andutter mistake.  Of course, the married state is no more exemptfrom the universal law of growth, development, alteration,than any other human institution.  On its spiritual side,of course, viewed either as a sacrament, or as--""Don't let us go into that," interposed Alice, abruptly. "In fact, there is no good in talking any more at all. It is as if we didn't speak the same language. You don't understand what I say; it makes no impressionupon your mind.""Quite to the contrary," he assured her; "I have beendeeply interested and concerned in all you have said. I think you are laboring under a great delusion,and I have tried my best to convince you of it;but I have never heard you speak more intelligibly or,I might say, effectively."A little gleam of softness stole over Alice's face. "If you only gave me a little more credit for intelligence,"she said, "you would find that I am not such a blockheadas you think I am.""Come, come!" he said, with a smiling show of impatience. "You really mustn't impute things to me wholesale,like that."She was glad to answer the smile in kind.  "No; but truly,"she pleaded, "you don't realize it, but you have growninto a way of treating me as if I had absolutely no mindat all.""You have a very admirable mind," he responded,and took up his teaspoon again.  She reached for his cup,and poured out hot coffee for him.  An almost cheerfulspirit had suddenly descended upon the breakfast table."And now let me say the thing I have been aching to sayfor months," she began in less burdened voice.He lifted his brows.  "Haven't things been discussedpretty fully already?" he asked.The doubtful, harassed expression clouded upon her faceat his words, and she paused.  "No," she said resolutely,after an instant's reflection; "it is my duty todiscuss this, too.  It is a misunderstanding all round. You remember that I told you Mr. Gorringe had given mesome plants, which he got from some garden or other?""If you really wish to go on with the subject--yes Ihave a recollection of that particular falsehood of his.""He did it with the kindest and friendliest motives inthe world!" protested Alice.  "He saw how down-in-the-mouthand moping I was here, among these strangers--and I really was getting quite peaked and run-down--and he said I stayed indoors too much and it would do meall sorts of good to work in the garden, and he wouldsend me some plants.  The next I knew, here they were,with a book about mixing soils and planting, and so on. When I saw him next, and thanked him, I suppose I showedsome apprehension about his having laid out money on them,and he, just to ease my mind, invented the story about hisgetting them for nothing.  When I found out the truth--I got it out of that boy, Harvey Semple--he admitted itquite frankly--said he was wrong to deceive me.""This was in the fine first fervor of his term of probation,I suppose," put in Theron.  He made no effort to dissemblethe sneer in his voice."Well," answered Alice, with a touch of acerbity,"I have told you now, and it is off my mind.  There neverwould have been the slightest concealment about it,if you hadn't begun by keeping me at arm's length,and making it next door to impossible to speak to youat all, and if--""And if he hadn't lied."  Theron, as he finished hersentence for her, rose from the table.  Dallying for abrief moment by his chair, there seemed the magneticpremonition in the air of some further and kindlier word. Then he turned and walked sedately into the next room,and closed the door behind him.  The talk was finished;and Alice, left alone, passed the knuckle of her thumbover one swimming eye and then the other, and bit her lipsand swallowed down the sob that rose in her throat.CHAPTER XXVIIIIt was early afternoon when Theron walked out of his yard,bestowing no glance upon the withered and tarnishedshow of the garden, and started with a definite stepdown the street.  The tendency to ruminative loitering,which those who saw him abroad always associatedwith his tall, spare figure, was not suggested today. He moved forward like a man with a purpose.All the forenoon in the seclusion of the sitting-room,with a book opened before him, he had been thinking hard. It was not the talk with Alice that occupied his thoughts. That rose in his mind from time to time, only as adisagreeable blur, and he refused to dwell upon it. It was nothing to him, he said to himself, what Gorringe'smotives in lying had been.  As for Alice, he hardenedhis heart against her.  Just now it was her mood to tryand make up to him.  But it had been something differentyesterday, and who could say what it would be tomorrow? He really had passed the limit of patience with her shiftingemotional vagaries, now lurching in this direction,now in that.  She had had her chance to maintain a holdupon his interest and imagination, and had let it slip. These were the accidents of life, the inevitable harshhappenings in the great tragedy of Nature.  They could notbe helped, and there was nothing more to be said.He had bestowed much more attention upon what the priesthad said the previous evening.  He passed in review allthe glowing tributes Father Forbes had paid to Celia. They warmed his senses as he recalled them, but they also,in a curious, indefinite way, caused him uneasiness. There had been a personal fervor about them which wassomething more than priestly.  He remembered how thepriest had turned pale and faltered when the questionwhether Celia would escape the general doom of her familycame up.  It was not a merely pastoral agitation that,he felt sure.A hundred obscure hints, doubts, stray little suspicions,crowded upward together in his thoughts.  It became apparentto him now that from the outset he had been consciousof something queer--yes, from that very first day when hesaw the priest and Celia together, and noted their glanceof recognition inside the house of death.  He realized now,upon reflection, that the tone of other people, his ownparishioners and his casual acquaintances in Octavius alike,had always had a certain note of reservation in it whenit touched upon Miss Madden.  Her running in and outof the pastorate at all hours, the way the priest pattedher on the shoulder before others, the obvious dislikethe priest's ugly old housekeeper bore her, the astonishingfreedom of their talk with each other--these darkmemories loomed forth out of a mass of sinister conjecture.He could bear the uncertainty no longer.  Was it indeednot entirely his own fault that it had existed thus long? No man with the spirit of a mouse would have shilly-shalliedin this preposterous fashion, week after week, with the feverof a beautiful woman's kiss in his blood, and the womanherself living only round the corner.  The whole worldhad been as good as offered to him--a bewildering worldof wealth and beauty and spiritual exaltation and love--and he, like a weak fool, had waited for it to be broughtto him on a salver, as it were, and actually forced uponhis acceptance!  "That is my failing," he reflected;"these miserable ecclesiastical bandages of mine have dwarfedmy manly side.  The meanest of Thurston's clerks wouldhave shown a more adventurous spirit and a bolder nerve. If I do not act at once, with courage and resolution,everything will be lost.  Already she must think meunworthy of the honor it was in her sweet will to bestow." Then he remembered that she was now always at home. "Not another hour of foolish indecision!" he whisperedto himself.  "I will put my destiny to the test.  I will seeher today!A middle-aged, plain-faced servant answered his ring at thedoor-bell of the Madden mansion.  She was palpably Irish,and looked at him with a saddened preoccupation in hergray eyes, holding the door only a little ajar.Theron had got out one of his cards.  "I wish to makeinquiry about young Mr. Madden--Mr. Michael Madden,"he said, holding the card forth tentatively.  "I have onlyjust heard of his illness, and it has been a great griefto me.""He is no better," answered the woman, briefly."I am the Rev. Mr. Ware," he went on, "and you may say that,if he is well enough, I should be glad to see him."The servant peered out at him with a suddenly alteredexpression, then shook her head.  "I don't think he wouldbe wishing to see YOU," she replied.  It was evidentfrom her tone that she suspected the visitor's intentions.Theron smiled in spite of himself.  "I have not comeas a clergyman," he explained, "but as a friend ofthe family.  If you will tell Miss Madden that I am here,it will do just as well.  Yes, we won't bother him. If you will kindly hand my card to his sister."When the domestic turned at this and went in, Theron feltlike throwing his hat in the air, there where he stood. The woman's churlish sectarian prejudices had playedideally into his hands.  In no other imaginableway could he have asked for Celia so naturally. He wondered a little that a servant at such a grand houseas this should leave callers standing on the doorstep. Still more he wondered what he should say to the ladyof his dream when he came into her presence."Will you please to walk this way?"  The woman had returned. She closed the door noiselessly behind him, and led the way,not up the sumptuous staircase, as Theron had expected,but along through the broad hall, past several large doors,to a small curtained archway at the end.  She pushedaside this curtain, and Theron found himself in a sortof conservatory, full of the hot, vague light of sunshinefalling through ground-glass. The air was moist and close,and heavy with the smell of verdure and wet earth. A tall bank of palms, with ferns sprawling at their base,reared itself directly in front of him.  The floor was of mosaic,and he saw now that there were rugs upon it, and that therewere chairs and sofas, and other signs of habitation. It was, indeed, only half a greenhouse, for the lower partof it was in rosewood panels, with floral paintings on them,like a room.Moving to one side of the barrier of palms, he discovered,to his great surprise, the figure of Michael, sitting proppedup with pillows in a huge easy-chair. The sick man waslooking at him with big, gravely intent eyes.  His face didnot show as much change as Theron had in fancy pictured. It had seemed almost as bony and cadaverous on the dayof the picnic.  The hands spread out on the chair-armswere very white and thin, though, and the gaze in the blueeyes had a spectral quality which disturbed him.Michael raised his right hand, and Theron, stepping forward,took it limply in his for an instant.  Then he laid itdown again.  The touch of people about to die had alwaysbeen repugnant to him.  He could feel on his own warmpalm the very damp of the grave."I only heard from Father Forbes last evening of your--your ill-health," he said, somewhat hesitatingly.  He seatedhimself on a bench beneath the palms, facing the invalid,but still holding his hat.  "I hope very sincerely that youwill soon be all right again.""My sister is lying down in her room," answered Michael. He had not once taken his sombre and embarrassing gazefrom the other's face.  The voice in which he uttered thisuncalled-for remark was thin in fibre, cold and impassive. It fell upon Theron's ears with a suggestion of hidden meaning. He looked uneasily into Michael's eyes, and then away again. They seemed to be looking straight through him, and therewas no shirking the sensation that they saw and comprehendedthings with an unnatural prescience."I hope she is feeling better," Theron found himself saying. "Father Forbes mentioned that she was a little underthe weather.  I dined with him last night.""I am glad that you came," said Michael, after a little pause. His earnest, unblinking eyes seemed to supplement histongue with speech of their own.  "I do be thinking agreat deal about you.  I have matters to speak of to you,now that you are here."Theron bowed his head gently, in token of grateful attention. He tried the experiment of looking away from Michael,but his glance went back again irresistibly, and fasteneditself upon the sick man's gaze, and clung there."I am next door to a dead man," he went on, paying no heedto the other's deprecatory gesture.  "It is not yearsor months with me, but weeks.  Then I go away to stand upfor judgment on my sins, and if it is His merciful will,I shall see God.  So I say my good-byes now, and so youwill let me speak plainly, and not think ill of what I say. You are much changed, Mr. Ware, since you came to Octavius,and it is not a change for the good."Theron lifted his brows in unaffected surprise, and putinquiry into his glance."I don't know if Protestants will be saved, in God'sgood time, or not," continued Michael.  "I find thereare different opinions among the clergy about that,and of course it is not for me, only a plain mechanic,to be sure where learned and pious scholars are in doubt. But I am sure about one thing.  Those Protestants,and others too, mind you, who profess and preach good deeds,and themselves do bad deeds--they will never be saved. They will have no chance at all to escape hell-fire.""I think we are all agreed upon that, Mr. Madden,"said Theron, with surface suavity."Then I say to you, Mr. Ware, you are yourself in a bad path. Take the warning of a dying man, sir, and turn from it!"The impulse to smile tugged at Theron's facial muscles. This was really too droll.  He looked up at the ceiling,the while he forced his countenance into a polite composure,then turned again to Michael, with some conciliatorycommonplace ready for utterance.  But he said nothing,and all suggestion of levity left his mind, under the searchinginspection bent upon him by the young man's hollow eyes. What did Michael suspect?  What did he know?  What was hehinting at, in this strange talk of his?"I saw you often on the street when first you came here,"continued Michael.  "I knew the man who was here before you--that is, by sight--and he was not a good man.  But your face,when you came, pleased me.  I liked to look at you. I was tormented just then, do you see, that so many decent,kindly people, old school-mates and friends and neighborsof mine--and, for that matter, others all over the countrymust lose their souls because they were Protestants. At my boyhood and young manhood, that thought took the joyout of me.  Sometimes I usen't to sleep a whole night long,for thinking that some lad I had been playing with,perhaps in his own house, that very day, would be takenwhen he died, and his mother too, when she died, and throwninto the flames of hell for all eternity.  It made meso unhappy that finally I wouldn't go to any Protestantboy's house, and have his mother be nice to me, and give mecake and apples--and me thinking all the while that theywere bound to be damned, no matter how good they wereto me."The primitive humanity of this touched Theron, and henodded approbation with a tender smile in his eyes,forgetting for the moment that a personal applicationof the monologue had been hinted at."But then later, as I grew up," the sick man went on,"I learned that it was not altogether certain.  Some ofthe authorities, I found, maintained that it was doubtful,and some said openly that there must be salvation possiblefor good people who lived in ignorance of the truththrough no fault of their own.  Then I had hope one day,and no hope the next, and as I did my work I thoughtit over, and in the evenings my father and I talkedit over, and we settled nothing of it at all.  Of course,how could we?""Did you ever discuss the question with your sister?"it occurred suddenly to Theron to interpose.  He wasconscious of some daring in doing so, and he fanciedthat Michael's drawn face clouded a little at his words."My sister is no theologian," he answered briefly. "Women have no call to meddle with such matters. But I was saying--it was in the middle of these doubtingsof mine that you came here to Octavius, and I noticedyou on the streets, and once in the evening--I madeno secret of it to my people--I sat in the back of yourchurch and heard you preach.  As I say, I liked you. It was your face, and what I thought it showed of the manunderneath it, that helped settle my mind more thananything else.  I said to myself:  "Here is a young man,only about my own age, and he has education and talents,and he does not seek to make money for himself,or a great name, but he is content to live humbly onthe salary of a book-keeper, and devote all his time toprayer and the meditation of his religion, and preaching,and visiting the sick and the poor, and comforting them. His very face is a pleasure and a help for those in sufferingand trouble to look at.  The very sight of it makes onebelieve in pure thoughts and merciful deeds.  I will notcredit it that God intends damning such a man as that,or any like him!"Theron bowed, with a slow, hesitating gravity of manner,and deep, not wholly complacent, attention on his face. Evidently all this was by way of preparation forsomething unpleasant."That was only last spring," said Michael.  His tiredvoice sank for a sentence or two into a meditativehalf-whisper. "And it was MY last spring of all.  I shallnot be growing weak any more, or drawing hard breaths,when the first warm weather comes.  It will be one seasonto me hereafter, always the same."  He lifted his voicewith perceptible effort.  "I am talking too much. The rest I can say in a word.  Only half a year hasgone by, and you have another face on you entirely. I had noticed the small changes before, one by one.  I sawthe great change, all of a sudden, the day of the picnic. I see it a hundred times more now, as you sit there. If it seemed to me like the face of a saint before,it is more like the face of a bar-keeper now!"This was quite too much.  Theron rose, flushed to the temples,and scowled down at the helpless man in the chair. He swallowed the sharp words which came uppermost,and bit and moistened his lips as he forced himself toremember that this was a dying man, and Celia's brother,to whom she was devoted, and whom he himself felt hewanted to be very fond of.  He got the shadow of a smileon to his countenance."I fear you HAVE tired yourself unduly," he said,in as non-contentious a tone as he could manage. He even contrived a little deprecatory laugh.  I amafraid your real quarrel is with the air of Octavius. It agrees with me so wonderfully--I am getting as fatas a seal.  But I do hope I am not paying for it by sucha wholesale deterioration inside.  If my own opinion couldbe of any value, I should assure you that I feel myselfan infinitely better and broader and stronger man than Iwas when I came here."Michael shook his head dogmatically.  "That is the greatestpity of all," he said, with renewed earnestness.  "You areentirely deceived about yourself.  You do not at all realizehow you have altered your direction, or where you are going. It was a great misfortune for you, sir, that you did not keepamong your own people.  That poor half-brother of mine,though the drink was in him when he said that same to you,never spoke a truer word.  Keep among your own people,Mr. Ware!  When you go among others--you know what I mean--you have no proper understanding of what their sayingsand doings really mean.  You do not realize that they areheld up by the power of the true Church, as a little childlearning to walk is held up with a belt by its nurse. They can say and do things, and no harm at all come to them,which would mean destruction to you, because they have help,and you are walking alone.  And so be said by me, Mr. Ware! Go back to the way you were brought up in, and leavealone the people whose ways are different from yours. You are a married man, and you are the preacher ofa religion, such as it is.  There can be nothing betterfor you than to go and strive to be a good husband,and to set a good example to the people of your Church,who look up to you--and mix yourself up no more with outsidepeople and outside notions that only do you mischief. And that is what I wanted to say to you."Theron took up his hat.  "I take in all kindness what youhave felt it your duty to say to me, Mr. Madden," he said. "I am not sure that I have altogether followed you, but Iam very sure you mean it well.""I mean well by you," replied Michael, wearily movinghis head on the pillow, and speaking in an undertoneof languor and pain, "and I mean well by others, that arenearer to me, and that I have a right to care more about. When a man lies by the site of his open grave, he doesnot be meaning ill to any human soul.""Yes--thanks--quite so!" faltered Theron.  He dalliedfor an instant with the temptation to seek some furtherexplanation, but the sight of Michael's half-closedeyes and worn-out expression decided him against it. It did not seem to be expected, either, that he shouldshake hands, and with a few perfunctory words of hopefor the invalid's recovery, which fell with a jarring noteof falsehood upon his own ears, he turned and left the room. As he did so, Michael touched a bell on the table beside him.Theron drew a long breath in the hall, as the curtainfell behind him.  It was an immense relief to escapefrom the oppressive humidity and heat of the flower-room,and from that ridiculous bore of a Michael as well.The middle-aged, grave-faced servant, warned by the bell,stood waiting to conduct him to the door."I am sorry to have missed Miss Madden," he said to her. "She must be quite worn out.  Perhaps later in the day--""She will not be seeing anybody today," returned the woman. "She is going to New York this evening, and she is takingsome rest against the journey.""Will she be away long?" he asked mechanically. The servant's answer, "I have no idea," hardly penetratedhis consciousness at all.He moved down the steps, and along the gravel to the street,in a maze of mental confusion.  When he reached the sidewalk,under the familiar elms, he paused, and made a definiteeffort to pull his thoughts together, and take stockof what had happened, of what was going to happen;but the thing baffled him.  It was as if some drug hadstupefied his faculties.He began to walk, and gradually saw that what he wasthinking about was the fact of Celia's departure for NewYork that evening.  He stared at this fact, at first inits nakedness, then clothed with reassuring suggestionsthat this was no doubt a trip she very often made. There was a blind sense of comfort in this idea, and herested himself upon it.  Yes, of course, she travelleda great deal.  New York must be as familiar to heras Octavius was to him.  Her going there now was quitea matter of course--the most natural thing in the world.Then there burst suddenly uppermost in his mind theother fact--that Father Forbes was also going to NewYork that evening.  The two things spindled upward,side by side, yet separately, in his mental vision;then they twisted and twined themselves together. He followed their convolutions miserably, walking as ifhis eyes were shut.In slow fashion matters defined and arranged themselvesbefore him.  The process of tracing their sequence wasall torture, but there was no possibility, no notion,of shirking any detail of the pain.  The priest had spokenof his efforts to persuade Celia to go away for a few days,for rest and change of air and scene.  He must have knownonly too well that she was going, but of that he had beencareful to drop no hint.  The possibility of accidentwas too slight to be worth considering.  People on suchintimate terms as Celia and the priest--people with suchfacilities for seeing each other whenever they desired--did not find themselves on the same train of cars,with the same long journey in view, by mere chance.Theron walked until dusk began to close in upon theautumn day.  It grew colder, as he turned his face homeward. He wondered if it would freeze again over-night, and thenremembered the shrivelled flowers in his wife's garden. For a moment they shaped themselves in a picture before hismind's eye; he saw their blackened foliage, their sicklied,drooping stalks, and wilted blooms, and as he looked,they restored themselves to the vigor and grace and richnessof color of summer-time, as vividly as if they had beenpainted on a canvas.  Or no, the picture he stared atwas not on canvas, but on the glossy, varnished panelof a luxurious sleeping-car. He shook his head angrily andblinked his eyes again and again, to prevent their seeing,seated together in the open window above this panel,the two people he knew were there, gloved and habitedfor the night's journey, waiting for the train to start."Very much to my surprise," he found himself saying to Alice,watching her nervously as she laid the supper-table, "Ifind I must go to Albany tonight.  That is, it isn'tabsolutely necessary, for that matter, but I think itmay easily turn out to be greatly to my advantage to go. Something has arisen--I can't speak about it as yet--but the sooner I see the Bishop about it the better. Things like that occur in a man's life, where boldlystriking out a line of action, and following it up withoutan instant's delay, may make all the difference in the worldto him.  Tomorrow it might be too late; and, besides, I canbe home the sooner again."Alice's face showed surprise, but no trace of suspicion. She spoke with studied amiability during the meal,and deferred with such unexpected tact to his implieddesire not to be questioned as to the mysterious motivesof the journey, that his mood instinctively softened andwarmed toward her, as they finished supper.He smiled a little.  "I do hope I shan't have to goon tomorrow to New York; but these Bishops of ours aresuch gad-abouts one never knows where to catch them. As like as not Sanderson may be down in New York,on Book-Concern business or something; and if he is,I shall have to chase him up.  But, after all, perhaps thetrip will do me good--the change of air and scene,you know.""I'm sure I hope so," said Alice, honestly enough. "If you do go on to New York, I suppose you'll go by theriver-boat. Everybody talks so much of that beautifulsail down the Hudson.""That's an idea!" exclaimed Theron, welcoming itwith enthusiasm.  "It hadn't occurred to me.  If Ido have to go, and it is as lovely as they make out,the next time I promise I won't go without you, my girl. I HAVE been rather out of sorts lately," he continued. "When I come back, I daresay I shall be feeling better,more like my old self.  Then I'm going to try, Alice, to benicer to you than I have been of late.  I'm afraid therewas only too much truth in what you said this morning.""Never mind what I said this morning--or any other time,"broke in Alice, softly.  "Don't ever remember it again,Theron, if only--only--"He rose as she spoke, moved round the table to whereshe sat, and, bending over her, stopped the falteringsentence with a kiss.  When was it, he wondered,that he had last kissed her?  It seemed years, ages, ago.An hour later, with hat and overcoat on, and his valisein his hand, he stood on the doorstep of the parsonage,and kissed her once more before he turned and descendedinto the darkness.  He felt like whistling as his feetsounded firmly on the plank sidewalk beyond the gate. It seemed as if he had never been in such capital goodspirits before in his life.CHAPTER XXIXThe train was at a standstill somewhere, and the dull,ashen beginnings of daylight had made a first feeble starttoward effacing the lamps in the car-roof, when the new dayopened for Theron.  A man who had just come in stoppedat the seat upon which he had been stretched throughthe night, and, tapping him brusquely on the knee, said,"I'm afraid I must trouble you, sir."  After a momentof sleep-burdened confusion, he sat up, and the mantook the other half of the seat and opened a newspaper,still damp from the press.  It was morning, then.Theron rubbed a clear space upon the clouded windowwith his thumb, and looked out.  There was nothing tobe seen but a broad stretch of tracks, and beyond thisthe shadowed outlines of wagons and machinery in a yard,with a background of factory buildings.The atmosphere in the car was vile beyond belief. He thought of opening the window, but feared that theperemptory-looking man with the paper, who had wakened himand made him sit up, might object.  They were the only peoplein the car who were sitting up.  Backwards and forwards,on either side of the narrow aisle, the dim light disclosedrecumbent forms, curled uncomfortably into corners,or sprawling at difficult angles which involved the leastinterference with one another.  Here and there an upturnedface gave a livid patch of surface for the mingled playof the gray dawn and the yellow lamp-light. A ceaselessnoise of snoring was in the air.He got up and walked to the tank of ice-water at the endof the aisle, and took a drink from the most inaccessibleportion of the common tin-cup's rim.  The happy idea of goingout on the platform struck him, and he acted upon it. The morning air was deliciously cool and fresh by contrast,and he filled his lungs with it again and again. Standing here, he could discern beyond the buildings to theright the faint purplish outlines of great rounded hills. Some workmen, one of them bearing a torch, were crouchingalong under the side of the train, pounding uponthe resonant wheels with small hammers.  He recalledhaving heard the same sound in the watches of the night,during a prolonged halt.  Some one had said it was Albany. He smiled in spite of himself at the thought that BishopSanderson would never know about the visit he had missed.Swinging himself to the ground, he bent sidewise and lookedforward down the long train.  There were five, six,perhaps more, sleeping-cars on in front.  Which one of them,he wondered--and then there came the sharp "All aboard!"from the other side, and he bundled up the steps again,and entered the car as the train slowly resumed its progress.He was wide-awake now, and quite at his ease.  He tookhis seat, and diverted himself by winking gravely ata little child facing him on the next seat but one. There were four other children in the family party,encamped about the tired and still sleeping mother whose backwas turned to Theron.  He recalled now having noticed thispoor woman last night, in the first stage of his journey--how she fed her brood from one of the numerous basketspiled under their feet, and brought water in a tin dishof her own from the tank to use in washing their faceswith a rag, and loosened their clothes to disposethem for the night's sleep.  The face of the woman,her manner and slatternly aspect, and the general effectof her belongings, bespoke squalid ignorance and poverty. Watching her, Theron had felt curiously interestedin the performance.  In one sense, it was scarcely morehuman than the spectacle of a cat licking her kittens,or a cow giving suck to her calf.  Yet, in another,was there anything more human?The child who had wakened before the rest regarded himwith placidity, declining to be amused by his winkings,but exhibiting no other emotion.  She had been playing byherself with a couple of buttons tied on a string, and aftergiving a civil amount of attention to Theron's grimaces,she turned again to the superior attractions of this toy. Her self-possession, her capacity for self-entertainment,the care she took not to arouse the others, all impressedhim very much.  He felt in his pocket for a small coin,and, reaching forward, offered it to her.  She tookit calmly, bestowed a tranquil gaze upon him for a moment,and went back to the buttons.  Her indifference producedan unpleasant sensation upon him somehow, and he rubbedthe steaming window clear again, and stared out of it.The wide river lay before him, flanked by a precipitous wallof cliffs which he knew instantly must be the Palisades. There was an advertisement painted on them which hetried in vain to read.  He was surprised to find theyinterested him so slightly.  He had heard all his lifeof the Hudson, and especially of it just at this point. The reality seemed to him almost commonplace.  His failureto be thrilled depressed him for the moment."I suppose those ARE the Palisades?" he asked his neighbor.The man glanced up from his paper, nodded, and madeas if to resume his reading.  But his eye had caughtsomething in the prospect through the window whicharrested his attention.  "By George!" he exclaimed,and lifted himself to get a clearer view."What is it?" asked Theron, peering forth as well."Nothing; only Barclay Wendover's yacht is still there. There's been a hitch of some sort.  They were to haveleft yesterday.""Is that it--that long black thing?" queried Theron. "That can't be a yacht, can it?""What do you think it is?" answered the other. They were looking at a slim, narrow hull, lying at anchor,silent and motionless on the drab expanse of water. "If that ain't a yacht, they haven't begun building any yet. They're taking her over to the Mediterranean for a cruise,you know--around India and Japan for the winter, and homeby the South Sea islands.  Friend o' mine's in the party. Wouldn't mind the trip myself.""But do you mean to say," asked Theron, "that that littleshell of a thing can sail across the ocean?  Why, how manypeople would she hold?"The man laughed.  "Well," he said, "there's room for twosets of quadrilles in the chief saloon, if the rest keeptheir legs well up on the sofas.  But there's only tenor a dozen in the party this time.  More than that ratherget in one another's way, especially with so many ladieson board."Theron asked no more questions, but bent his head to seethe last of this wonderful craft.  The sight of it,and what he had heard about it, suddenly gave pointand focus to his thoughts.  He knew at last what it wasthat had lurked, formless and undesignated, these manydays in the background of his dreams.  The picture rosein his mind now of Celia as the mistress of a yacht. He could see her reclining in a low easy-chair uponthe polished deck, with the big white sails billowingbehind her, and the sun shining upon the deep blue waves,and glistening through the splash of spray in the air,and weaving a halo of glowing gold about her fair head. Ah, how the tender visions crowded now upon him! Eternal summer basked round this enchanted yacht of his fancy--summer sought now in Scottish firths or Norwegian fiords,now in quaint old Southern harbors, ablaze with the huesof strange costumes and half-tropical flowers and fruits,now in far-away Oriental bays and lagoons, or amongthe coral reefs and palm-trees of the luxurious Pacific. He dwelt upon these new imaginings with the fervent longingof an inland-born boy.  Every vague yearning he had ever felttoward salt-water stirred again in his blood at the thoughtof the sea--with Celia.Why not?  She had never visited any foreign land. "Sometime," she had said, "sometime, no doubt I will." He could hear again the wistful, musing tone of her voice. The thought had fascinations for her, it was clear. How irresistibly would it not appeal to her, presented withthe added charm of a roving, vagrant independence onthe high seas, free to speed in her snow-winged chariotwherever she willed over the deep, loitering in this place,or up-helm-and-away to another, with no more care or weightof responsibility than the gulls tossing through the air inher wake!Theron felt, rather than phrased to himself, that therewould not be "ten or a dozen in the party" on that yacht. Without defining anything in his mind, he breathed infancy the same bold ocean breeze which filled the sails,and toyed with Celia's hair; he looked with her as shesat by the rail, and saw the same waves racing past,the same vast dome of cloud and ether that were mirroredin her brown eyes, and there was no one else anywherenear them.  Even the men in sailors' clothes, who wouldbe pulling at ropes, or climbing up tarred ladders,kept themselves considerately outside the picture. Only Celia sat there, and at her feet, gazing up againinto her face as in the forest, the man whose wholebeing had been consecrated to her service, her worship,by the kiss."You've passed it now.  I was trying to point out theJumel house to you--where Aaron Burr lived, you know."Theron roused himself from his day-dream, and nodded witha confused smile at his neighbor.  "Thanks," he faltered;"I didn't hear you.  The train makes such a noise, and Imust have been dozing."He looked about him.  The night aspect, as of a tramps'lodging-house, had quite disappeared from the car. Everybody was sitting up; and the more impatientwere beginning to collect their bundles and hand-bagsfrom the racks and floor.  An expressman came through,jangling a huge bunch of brass checks on leathern thongsover his arm, and held parley with passengers alongthe aisle.  Outside, citified streets, with storesand factories, were alternating in the moving panoramawith open fields; and, even as he looked, these vacantspaces ceased altogether, and successive regular linesof pavement, between two tall rows of houses all alike,began to stretch out, wheel to the right, and swingoff out of view, for all the world like the avenues ofhop-poles he remembered as a boy.  Then was a long tunnel,its darkness broken at stated intervals by brief burstsof daylight from overhead, and out of this all atonce the train drew up its full length in some vast,vaguely lighted enclosure, and stopped."Yes, this is New York," said the man, folding up his paper,and springing to his feet.  The narrow aisle was filled withmany others who had been prompter still; and Theron stood,bag in hand, waiting till this energetic throng shouldhave pushed itself bodily past him forth from the car. Then he himself made his way out, drifting with a senseof helplessness in their resolute wake.  There rose in hismind the sudden conviction that he would be too late. All the passengers in the forward sleepers would be gonebefore he could get there.  Yet even this terror gave himno new power to get ahead of anybody else in the tightlypacked throng.Once on the broad platform, the others started off briskly;they all seemed to know just where they wanted to go,and to feel that no instant of time was to be lostin getting there.  Theron himself caught some of thisurgent spirit, and hurled himself along in the throngwith reckless haste, knocking his bag against peoples'legs, but never pausing for apology or comment untilhe found himself abreast of the locomotive at the headof the train.  He drew aside from the main current here,and began searching the platform, far and near, for thosehe had travelled so far to find.The platform emptied itself.  Theron lingered on inpuzzled hesitation, and looked about him.  In the wholeimmense station, with its acres of tracks and footways,and its incessantly shifting processions of people,there was visible nobody else who seemed also in doubt,or who appeared capable of sympathizing with indecisionin any form.  Another train came in, some way over tothe right, and before it had fairly stopped, swarms ofeager men began boiling out of each end of each car,literally precipitating themselves over one another,it seemed to Theron, in their excited dash down the steps. As they caught their footing below, they started racingpell-mell down the platform to its end; there he saw them,looking more than ever like clustered bees in the distance,struggling vehemently in a dense mass up a staircase in theremote corner of the building."What are those folks running for?  Is there a fire?"he asked an amiable-faced young mulatto, in the uniformof the sleeping-car service, who passed him with some lighthand-bags."No; they's Harlem people, I guess--jes' catchin' the Elevated--that's all, sir," he answered obligingly.At the moment some passengers emerged slowly from oneof the sleeping-cars, and came loitering toward him."Why, are there people still in these cars?" he asked eagerly. "Haven't they all gone?""Some has; some ain't," the porter replied.  "They mostgenerally take their time about it.  They ain't no hurry,so long's they get out 'fore we're drawn round to the drill-yard."There was still hope, then.  Theron took up his bagand walked forward, intent upon finding some place fromwhich he could watch unobserved the belated stragglersissuing from the sleeping-cars. He started back all at once,confronted by a semi-circle of violent men with whipsand badges, who stunned his hearing by a sudden vociferousoutburst of shouts and yells.  They made furious gesturesat him with their whips and fists, to enforce theincoherent babel of their voices; and in these gestures,as in their faces and cries, there seemed a great dealof menace and very little invitation.  There was a bigpoliceman sauntering near by, and Theron got the ideathat it was his presence alone which protected him fromopen violence at the hands of these savage hackmen. He tightened his clutch on his valise, and, turning his backon them and their uproar, tried to brave it out and standwhere he was.  But the policeman came lounging slowlytoward him, with such authority in his swaying gait,and such urban omniscience written all over his broad,sandy face, that he lost heart, and beat an abrupt retreatoff to the right, where there were a number of doorways,near which other people had ventured to put down baggageon the floor.Here, somewhat screened from observation, he stoodfor a long time, watching at odd moments the ceaselesslyvarying phases of the strange scene about him, but alwayskeeping an eye on the train he had himself arrived in. It was slow and dispiriting work.  A dozen times his heartfailed him, and he said to himself mournfully that hehad had his journey for nothing.  Then some new figurewould appear, alighting from the steps of a sleeper,and hope revived in his breast.At last, when over half an hour of expectancy had beenmarked off by the big clock overhead, his suspense cameto an end.  He saw Father Forbes' erect and substantialform, standing on the car platform nearest of all,balancing himself with his white hands on the rails,waiting for something.  Then after a little he came down,followed by a black porter, whose arms were burdenedby numerous bags and parcels.  The two stood a minuteor so more in hesitation at the side of the steps. Then Celia descended, and the three advanced.The importance of not being discovered was uppermostin Theron's mind, now that he saw them actually comingtoward him.  He had avoided this the previous evening,in the Octavius depot, with some skill, he flattered himself. It gave him a pleasurable sense of being a man of affairs,almost a detective, to be confronted by the necessitynow of baffling observation once again.  He was stillrather without plans for keeping them in view, once theyleft the station.  He had supposed that he would be ableto hear what hotel they directed their driver to takethem to, and, failing that, he had fostered a notion,based upon a story he had read when a boy, of throwinghimself into another carriage, and bidding his driverto pursue them in hot haste, and on his life not failto track them down.  These devices seemed somewhat empty,now that the urgent moment was at hand; and as he drewback behind some other loiterers, out of view, he sharplyracked his wits for some way of coping with this mostpressing problem.It turned out, however, that there was no difficultyat all.  Father Forbes and Celia seemed to have no use forthe hackmen, but moved straight forward toward the street,through the doorway next to that in which Theron cowered. He stole round, and followed them at a safe distance,making Celia's hat, and the portmanteau perched onthe shoulder of the porter behind her, his guides. To his surprise, they still kept on their course when theyhad reached the sidewalk, and went over the pavementacross an open square which spread itself directly infront of the station.  Hanging as far behind as he dared,he saw them pass to the other sidewalk diagonally opposite,proceed for a block or so along this, and then separate ata corner.  Celia and the negro lad went down a side street,and entered the door of a vast, tall red-brick buildingwhich occupied the whole block.  The priest, turning onhis heel, came back again and went boldly up the broadsteps of the front entrance to this same structure,which Theron now discovered to be the Murray Hill Hotel.Fortune had indeed favored him.  He not only knew wherethey were, but he had been himself a witness to the furtiveway in which they entered the house by different doors. Nothing in his own limited experience of hotels helped himto comprehend the notion of a separate entrance for ladiesand their luggage.  He did not feel quite sure about thesignificance of what he had observed, in his own mind. But it was apparent to him that there was somethingunderhanded about it.After lingering awhile on the steps of the hotel,and satisfying himself by peeps through the glassdoors that the coast was clear, he ventured inside. The great corridor contained many people, coming, going,or standing about, but none of them paid any attention to him. At last he made up his mind, and beckoned a colored boyto him from a group gathered in the shadows of the bigcentral staircase.  Explaining that he did not at that momentwish a room, but desired to leave his bag, the boy tookhim to a cloak-room, and got him a check for the thing. With this in his pocket he felt himself more at his ease,and turned to walk away.  Then suddenly he wheeled, and,bending his body over the counter of the cloak-room,astonished the attendant inside by the eagerness withwhich he scrutinized the piled rows of portmanteaus,trunks, overcoats, and bundles in the little enclosure."What is it you want?  Here's your bag, if you're lookingfor that," this man said to him."No, thanks; it's nothing," replied Theron,straightening himself again.  He had had a narrow escape. Father Forbes and Celia, walking side by side, had comedown the small passage in which he stood, and had passed himso closely that he had felt her dress brush against him. Fortunately he had seen them in time, and by throwing himselfhalf into the cloak-room, had rendered recognition impossible.He walked now in the direction they had taken, till he cameto the polite colored man at an open door on the left,who was bowing people into the breakfast room. Standing in the doorway, he looked about him till his eyelighted upon his two friends, seated at a small tableby a distant window, with a black waiter, card in hand,bending over in consultation with them.Returning to the corridor, he made bold now to marchup to the desk and examine the register.  The priest'sname was not there.  He found only the brief entry,"Miss Madden, Octavius," written, not by her, but byFather Forbes.  On the line were two numbers in pencil,with an "and" between them.  An indirect question to oneof the clerks helped him to an explanation of this. When there were two numbers, it meant that the guest inquestion had a parlor as well as a bedroom.Here he drew a long, satisfied breath, and turned away. The first half of his quest stood completed--and thatmuch more fully and easily than he had dared to hope. He could not but feel a certain new respect for himselfas a man of resource and energy.  He had demonstratedthat people could not fool with him with impunity.It remained to decide what he would do with his discovery,now that it had been so satisfactorily made. As yet, he had given this hardly a thought.  Even now,it did not thrust itself forward as a thing demandinginstant attention.  It was much more important, first of all,to get a good breakfast.  He had learned that there wasanother and less formal eating-place, downstairs in thebasement by the bar, with an entrance from the street. He walked down by the inner stairway instead,feeling himself already at home in the big hotel. He ordered an ample breakfast, and came out while itwas being served to wash and have his boots blacked,and he gave the man a quarter of a dollar.  His pocketswere filled with silver quarters, half-dollars, and dollarsalmost to a burdensome point, and in his valise was a bagfull of smaller change, including many rolls of coppercents which Alice always counted and packed up on Mondays. In the hurry of leaving he had brought with him the churchcollections for the past two weeks.  It occurred to himthat he must keep a strict account of his expenditure. Meanwhile he gave ten cents to another man in a silk-sleevedcardigan jacket, who had merely stood by and looked at himwhile his boots were being polished.  There was a senseof metropolitan affluence in the very atmosphere.The little table in the adjoining room, on which Theronfound his meal in waiting for him, seemed a vision ofdelicate napery and refined appointments in his eyes. He was wolfishly hungry, and the dishes he looked upongave him back assurances by sight and smell that hewas very happy as well.  The servant in attendancehad an extremely white apron and a kindly black face. He bowed when Theron looked at him, with the air of alifelong admirer and humble friend."I suppose you'll have claret with your breakfast, sir?"he remarked, as if it were a matter of course."Why, certainly," answered Theron, stretching his legscontentedly under the table, and tucking the cornerof his napkin in his neckband.--"Certainly, my good man."CHAPTER XXXAt ten o'clock Theron, loitering near the bookstallin the corridor, saw Father Forbes come downstairs,pass out through the big front doors, get into a carriage,and drive away.This relieved him of a certain sense of responsibility,and he retired to a corner sofa and sat down. The detective side of him being off duty, so to speak,there was leisure at last for reflection upon the otheraspects of his mission.  Yes; it was high time for himto consider what he should do next.It was easier to recognize this fact, however, than to actupon it.  His mind was full of tricksy devices for eludingthis task of serious thought which he sought to imposeupon it.  It seemed so much pleasanter not to think at all--but just to drift.  He found himself watching with envythe men who, as they came out from their breakfast,walked over to the bookstall, and bought cigars from therow of boxes nestling there among the newspaper piles. They had such evident delight in the work of selection;they took off the ends of the cigars so carefully,and lighted them with such meditative attention,--he could see that he was wofully handicapped by notknowing how to smoke.  He had had the most wonderfulbreakfast of his life, but even in the consciousnessof comfortable repletion which pervaded his being,there was an obstinate sense of something lacking. No doubt a good cigar was the thing needed to round outthe perfection of such a breakfast.  He half rose once,fired by a sudden resolution to go over and get one. But of course that was nonsense; it would only makehim sick.  He sat down, and determinedly set himselfto thinking.The effort finally brought fruit--and of a kind whichgave him a very unhappy quarter of an hour.  The loverpart of him was uppermost now, insistently exposing allits raw surfaces to the stings and scalds of jealousy. Up to this moment, his brain had always evaded the directquestion of how he and the priest relatively stood inCelia's estimation.  It forced itself remorselessly uponhim now; and his thoughts, so far from shirking the subject,seemed to rise up to meet it.  It was extremely unpleasant,all this.But then a calmer view asserted itself.  Why go out ofhis way to invent anguish for himself?  The relationsbetween Celia and the priest, whatever they might be,were certainly of old standing.  They had begun beforehis time.  His own romance was a more recent affair, and musttake its place, of course, subject to existing conditions.It was all right for him to come to New York, and satisfyhis legitimate curiosity as to the exact character and scopeof these conditions.  But it was foolish to pretend to beamazed or dismayed at the discovery of their existence. They were a part of the situation which he, with hiseyes wide open, had accepted.  It was his functionto triumph over them, to supplant them, to rear theedifice of his own victorious passion upon their ruins. It was to this that Celia's kiss had invited him. It was for this that he had come to New York.  To lethis purpose be hampered or thwarted now by childishdoubts and jealousies would be ridiculous.He rose, and holding himself very erect, walked with measureddeliberation across the corridor and up the broad staircase. There was an elevator near at hand, he had noticed,but he preferred the stairs.  One or two of the coloredboys clustered about the foot of the stairs looked at him,and he had a moment of dreadful apprehension lest theyshould stop his progress.  Nothing was said, and he went on. The numbers on the first floor were not what he wanted,and after some wandering about he ascended to the next,and then to the third.  Every now and then he encounteredattendants, but intuitively he bore himself with an air ofknowing what he was about which protected him from inquiry.Finally he came upon the hall-way he sought.  Passing along,he found the doors bearing the numbers he had memorizedso well.  They were quite close together, and there wasnothing to help him guess which belonged to the parlor. He hesitated, gazing wistfully from one to the other. In the instant of indecision, even while his alert earcaught the sound of feet coming along toward the passagein which he stood, a thought came to quicken his resolve. It became apparent to him that his discovery gave hima certain new measure of freedom with Celia, a sort ofright to take things more for granted than heretofore. He chose a door at random, and rapped distinctly onthe panel."Come!"The voice he knew for Celia's. The single word, however,recalled the usage of Father Forbes, which he had notedmore than once at the pastorate, when Maggie had knocked.He straightened his shoulders, took his hat off, and pushedopen the door.  It WAS the parlor--a room of sofas,pianos, big easy-chairs, and luxurious bric-a-brac. A tallwoman was walking up and down in it, with bowed head. Her back was at the moment toward him; and he looked at her,saying to himself that this was the lady of his dreams,the enchantress of the kiss, the woman who loved him--but somehow it did not seem to his senses to be Celia.She turned, and moved a step or two in his direction beforeshe mechanically lifted her eyes and saw who was standingin her doorway.  She stopped short, and regarded him. Her face was in the shadow, and he could make out nothingof its expression, save that there was a general effectof gravity about it."I cannot receive you," she said.  "You must go away. You have no business to come like this without sending upyour card."Theron smiled at her.  The notion of taking in earnesther inhospitable words did not at all occur to him. He could see now that her face had vexed and saddened linesupon it, and the sharpness of her tone remained in his ears. But he smiled again gently, to reassure her."I ought to have sent up my name, I know," he said,"but I couldn't bear to wait.  I just saw your nameon the register and--you WILL forgive me, won't you?--I ran to you at once.  I know you won't have the heartto send me away!"She stood where she had halted, her arms behind her,looking him fixedly in the face.  He had made a movementto advance, and offer his hand in greeting, but herposture checked the impulse.  His courage began to falterunder her inspection."Must I really go down again?" he pleaded.  "It's acrushing penalty to suffer for such little indiscretion. I was so excited to find you were here--I never stoppedto think.  Don't send me away; please don't!"Celia raised her head.  "Well, shut the door, then,"she said, "since you are so anxious to stay.  You wouldhave done much better, though, very much better indeed,to have taken the hint and gone away.""Will you shake hands with me, Celia?" he asked softly,as he came near her."Sit there, please!" she made answer, indicating achair in the middle of the room.  He obeyed her,but to his surprise, instead of seating herself as well,she began walking up and down the length of the floor again. After a turn or two she stopped in front of him, and lookedhim full in the eye.  The light from the windows was on hercountenance now, and its revelations vaguely troubled him. It was a Celia he had never seen before who confronted him."I am much occupied by other matters," she said,speaking with cold impassivity, "but still I find myselfcurious to know just what limits you set to your dishonesty."Theron stared up at her.  His lips quivered, but no speechcame to them.  If this was all merely fond playfulness,it was being carried to a heart-aching point."I saw you hiding about in the depot at home last evening,"she went on.  "You come up here, pretending to havediscovered me by accident, but I saw you following mefrom the Grand Central this morning.""Yes, I did both these things," said Theron, boldly. A fine bravery tingled in his veins all at once. He looked into her face and found the spirit todisregard its frowning aspect.  "Yes, I did them,"he repeated defiantly.  "That is not the hundredth part,or the thousandth part, of what I would do for your sake. I have got way beyond caring for any consequences. Position, reputation, the good opinion of fools--what are they?  Life itself--what does it amount to? Nothing at all--with you in the balance!""Yes--but I am not in the balance," observed Celia,quietly.  "That is where you have made your mistake."Theron laid aside his hat.  Women were curious creatures,he reflected.  Some were susceptible to one line of treatment,some to another.  His own reading of Celia had alwaysbeen that she liked opposition, of a smart, rattling,almost cheeky, sort.  One got on best with her by sayingbright things.  He searched his brain now for some cleverquip that would strike sparks from the adamantine moodwhich for the moment it was her whim to assume.  To coverthe process, he smiled a little.  Then her beauty, as shestood before him, her queenly form clad in a more stifflyfashionable dress than he had seen her wearing before,appealed afresh and overwhelmingly to him.  He rose to his feet."Have you forgotten our talk in the woods?" he murmuredwith a wooing note.  "Have you forgotten the kiss?"She shook her head calmly.  "I have forgotten nothing.""Then why play with me so cruelly now?" he went on,in a voice of tender deprecation.  "I know you don'tmean it, but all the same it bruises my heart a little. I build myself so wholly upon you, I have made existenceitself depend so completely upon your smile, upon a softglance in your eyes, that when they are not there, why,I suffer, I don't know how to live at all.  So be kinderto me, Celia!""I was kinder, as you call it, when you came in,"she replied.  "I told you to go away.  That was pure kindness--more kindness than you deserved."Theron looked at his hat, where it stood on the carpetby his feet.  He felt tears coming into his eyes. "You tell me that you remember," he said, in depressed tones,"and yet you treat me like this!  Perhaps I am wrong. No doubt it is my own fault.  I suppose I ought not to havecome down here at all."Celia nodded her head in assent to this view."But I swear that I was helpless in the matter,"he burst forth.  "I HAD to come!  It would have beenliterally impossible fo