he rear.  It was necessarily a very long line, andat a distance resembled some hideous reptile crawling slowly andtortuously through the fair fields and plains of Africa.At first there were no stragglers, for the slaves were as yet, with fewexceptions, strong and vigorous.  These exceptions, and the lazy, wereeasily kept in the line by means of rope and chain, as well as the rodand lash.Harold and Disco studiously avoided their leader during the march.Marizano fell in with their humour and left them to themselves.  Atnights they made their own fire and cooked their own supper, as farremoved from the slave camp as was consistent with safety, for theycould not bear to witness the sufferings of the slaves, or to look upontheir captors.  Even the food that they were constrained to eat appearedto have a tendency to choke them, and altogether their situation becameso terrible that they several times almost formed the desperateresolution of leaving the party and trying to reach the coast bythemselves as they best might, but the utter madness and hopelessness ofsuch a project soon forced itself on their minds, and insured its beingfinally abandoned.One morning Marizano threw off his usual reserve, and, approaching thewhite men, told them that in two hours they would reach the lake wherehis employer was encamped."And who is your master?" asked Harold."A black-faced or yellow-faced blackguard like himself, I doubt not,"growled Disco.Antonio put Harold's question without Disco's comment, and Marizanoreplied that his master was an Arab trader, and added that he would pushon in advance of the party and inform him of their approach.Soon afterwards the lake was reached.  A large dhow was in readiness,the gang was embarked and ferried across to a place where several rudebuildings and barracoons, with a few tents, indicated that it was one ofthe inland headquarters of the trade in Black Ivory.The moment our travellers landed Marizano led them to one of the nearestbuildings, and introduced them to his master."Yoosoof!" exclaimed Disco in a shout of astonishment.It would have been a difficult question to have decided which of thethree faces displayed the most extreme surprise.  Perhaps Disco's wouldhave been awarded the palm, but Yoosoof was undoubtedly the first toregain his self-possession."You be surprised," he said, in his _very_ broken English, while hispale-yellow visage resumed its placid gravity of expression."Undoubtedly we are," said Harold."Bu'stin'!" exclaimed Disco."You would be not so mush surprised,--did you know dat I comes to hereevery year, an' dat Engleesh consul ask me for 'quire about you.""If that be so, how comes it that _you_ were surprised to see us?" askedHarold."'Cause why, I only knows dat some white mans be loss theirselfs--notknows _what_ mans--not knows it was _you_.""Well now," cried Disco, unable to restrain himself as he turned toHarold, "did ever two unfortnits meet wi' sitch luck?  Here have we bin'obliged for days to keep company with the greatest Portugee villian inthe country, an' now we're needcessitated to be under a obligation tothe greatest Arab scoundrel in Afriky."The scoundrel in question smiled and shrugged his shoulders."Yoosoof," cried Disco, clenching his fist and looking full in thetrader's eyes, "when I last saw yer ugly face, I vowed that if ever Iseed it again I'd leave my mark on it pretty deep, I did; and now I doessee it again, but I haven't the moral courage to touch sitch a poor,pitiful, shrivelled-up package o' bones an' half-tanned leather.Moreover, I'm goin' to be indebted to 'ee!  Ha! ha!"  (he laughedbitterly, and with a dash of wild humour in the tone), "to travel underyer care, an' eat yer accursed bread, and--and--oh! there ain't no sitchthing as shame left in my corpus.  I'm a low mean-spirited boastfulidiot, that's wot _I_ am, an' I don't care the fag-end of a hunk o'gingerbread who knows it."After this explosion the sorely tried mariner brought his right handdown on his thigh with a tremendous crack, turned about and walked awayto cool himself.CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.PROGRESS OF THE SLAVE-RUN--THE DEADLY SWAMP, AND THE UNEXPECTED RESCUE.We will now leap over a short period of time--about two or three weeks--during which the sable procession had been winding its weary way overhill and dale, plain and swamp.During that comparatively brief period, Harold and Disco had seen somuch cruelty and suffering that they both felt a strange tendency tobelieve that the whole must be the wild imaginings of a horrible dream.Perhaps weakness, resulting from illness, might have had something to dowith this peculiar feeling of unbelief, for both had been subject to asecond, though slight, attack of fever.  Nevertheless, coupled withtheir scepticism was a contradictory and dreadful certainty that theywere not dreaming, but that what they witnessed was absolute verity.It is probable that if they had been in their ordinary health and vigourthey would have made a violent attempt to rescue the slaves, even at thecost of their own lives.  But severe and prolonged illness oftenunhinges the mind as well as the body, and renders the spirit all butimpotent.One sultry evening the sad procession came to a long stretch of swamp,and prepared to cross it.  Although already thinned by death, theslave-gang was large.  It numbered several hundreds, and was led byMarizano; Yoosoof having started some days in advance in charge of asimilar gang.Harold and Disco were by that time in the habit of walking together infront of the gang, chiefly for the purpose of avoiding the sight ofcruelties and woes which they were powerless to prevent or assuage.  Onreaching the edge of the swamp, however, they felt so utterly weariedand dis-spirited that they sat down on a bank to rest, intending to letthe slave-gang go into the swamp before them and then follow in rear.Antonio and Jumbo also remained with them."You should go on in front," said Marizano significantly, on observingtheir intention."Tell him we'll remain where we are," said Disco sternly to Antonio.Marizano shrugged his shoulders and left them.The leading men of the slave-gang were ordered to advance, as soon asthe armed guard had commenced the toilsome march over ground into whichthey sank knee-deep at every step.The first man of the gang hesitated and heaved a deep sigh as though hisheart failed him at the prospect--and well it might, for, althoughyoung, he was not robust, and over-driving, coupled with the weight andthe chafing of the goree, had worn him to a skeleton.It was not the policy of the slave-traders to take much care of theirBlack Ivory.  They procured it so cheaply that it was easier and moreprofitable to lose or cast away some of it, than to put off time inresting and recruiting the weak.The moment it was observed, therefore, that the leading man hesitated,one of the drivers gave him a slash across his naked back with a heavywhip which at once drew blood.  Poor wretch; he could ill bear furtherloss of the precious stream of life, for it had already been deeplydrained from him by the slave-stick.  The chafing of that instrument oftorture had not only worn the skin off his shoulders, but had cut intothe quivering flesh, so that blood constantly dropped in smallquantities from it.No cry burst from the man's lips on receiving the cruel blow, but heturned his eyes on his captors with a look that seemed to implore formercy.  As well might he have looked for mercy at the hands of Satan.The lash again fell on him with stinging force.  He made a feeble effortto advance, staggered, and fell to the ground, dragging down the man towhom he was coupled with such violence as almost to break his neck.  Thelash was again about to be applied to make him rise, but Disco andHarold rose simultaneously and rushed at the driver, with what intentthey scarcely knew; but four armed half-castes stepped between them andthe slave."You had better not interfere," said Marizano, who stood close by."Out of the way!" cried Harold fiercely, in the strength of his passionhurling aside the man who opposed him."You shan't give him another cut," said Disco between his teeth, as heseized the driver by the throat."We don't intend to do so," said Marizano coolly, while the driverreleased himself from poor Disco's weakened grasp, "he won't need anymore."The Englishmen required no explanation of these words.  A glance toldthem that the man was dying."Cut him out," said Marizano.One of his men immediately brought a saw and cut the fork of the stickwhich still held the living to the dying man, and which, being rivetedon them, could not otherwise be removed.Harold and Disco lifted him up as soon as he was free, and carrying hima short distance aside to a soft part of the bank, laid him gently down.The dying slave looked as if he were surprised at such unwontedtenderness.  There was even a slight smile on his lips for a fewmoments, but it quickly passed away with the fast ebbing tide of life."Go fetch some water," said Harold.  "His lips are dry."Disco rose and ran to fill a small cocoa-nut-shell which he carried athis girdle as a drinking-cup.  Returning with it he moistened the man'slips and poured a little of the cool water on the raw sores on each sideof his neck.They were so much engrossed with their occupation that neither of themobserved that the slave-gang had commenced to pass through the swamp,until the sharp cry of a child drew their attention to it for a moment;but, knowing that they could do no good, they endeavoured to shut theireyes and ears to everything save the duty they had in hand.By degrees the greater part of the long line had got into the swamp andwere slowly toiling through it under the stimulus of the lash.  Some,like the poor fellow who first fell, had sunk under their accumulatedtrials, and after a fruitless effort on the part of the slavers to drivethem forward, had been kicked aside into the jungle, there to die, or tobe torn in pieces by that ever-watchful scavenger of the wilderness, thehyena.  These were chiefly women, who having become mothers not longbefore were unable to carry their infants and keep up with the gang.Others, under the intense dread of flagellation, made the attempt, andstaggered on a short distance, only to fall and be left behind in thepestilential swamp, where rank reeds and grass closed over them andformed a ready grave.The difficulties of the swamp were, however, felt most severely by thechildren, who, from little creatures of not much more than five years ofage to well-grown boys and girls, were mingled with and chained to theadults along the line.  Their comparatively short legs were not welladapted for such ground, and not a few of them perished there; butalthough the losses here were terribly numerous in one sense, they afterall bore but a small proportion to those whose native vigour carriedthem through in safety.Among the men there were some whose strength of frame and fierceexpression indicated untameable spirits--men who might have been,probably were, heroes among their fellows.  It was for men of this stampthat the _goree_, or slave-stick, had been invented, and mosteffectually did that instrument serve its purpose.  Samson himself wouldhave been a mere child in it.There were men in the gang quite as bold, if not as strong, as Samson.One of these, a very tall and powerful negro, on drawing near to theplace where Marizano stood superintending the passage, turned suddenlyaside, and, although coupled by the neck to a fellow-slave, and securelybound at the wrists with a cord, which was evidently cutting into hisswelled flesh, made a desperate kick at the half-caste leader.Although the slave failed to reach him, Marizano was so enraged that hedrew a hatchet from his belt and instantly dashed out the man's brains.He fell dead without even a groan.  Terrified by this, the rest passedon more rapidly, and there was no further check till a woman in theline, with an infant on her back, stumbled, and, falling down, appearedunable to rise."Get up!" shouted Marizano, whose rage had rather been increased thanabated by the murder he had just committed.The woman rose and attempted to advance, but seemed ready to fall again.Seeing this, Marizano plucked the infant from her back, dashed itagainst a tree, and flung its quivering body into the jungle, while aterrible application of the lash sent the mother shrieking into theswamp.  [See Livingstone's _Zambesi and its Tributaries_, page 857; andfor a record of cruelties too horrible to be set down in a book likethis, we refer the reader to McLeod's _Travels in Eastern Africa_,volume two page 26.  Also to the Appendix of Captain Sulivan's_Dhow-Chasing in Zanzibar Waters_, which contains copious andinteresting extracts from evidence taken before the Select Committee ofthe House of Commons.]Harold and Disco did not witness this, though they heard the shriek ofdespair, for at the moment the negro they were tending was breathing hislast.  When his eyes had closed and the spirit had been set free, theyrose, and, purposely refraining from looking back, hurried away from thedreadful scene, intending to plunge into the swamp at some distance fromthe place, and push on until they should regain the head of the column."Better if we'd never fallen behind, sir," said Disco, in a deep,tremulous voice."True," replied Harold.  "We should have been spared these sights, andthe pain of knowing that we cannot prevent this appalling misery andcruelty.""But surely it is to be prevented _somehow_," cried Disco, almostfiercely.  "Many a war that has cost mints o' money has been carried onfor causes that ain't worth mentionin' in the same breath with _this_!"As Harold knew not what to say, and was toiling knee-deep in the swampat the moment he made no reply.After marching about half an hour he stopped abruptly and said, with aheavy sigh,--"I hope we haven't missed our way?""Hope not sir, but it looks like as if we had.""I've bin so took up thinkin' o' that accursed traffic in human bein'sthat I've lost my reckonin'.  Howsever, we can't be far out, an', withthe sun to guide us, we'll--"He was stopped by a loud halloo in the woods, on the belt of the swamp.It was repeated in a few seconds, and Antonio, who, with Jumbo, hadfollowed his master, cried in an excited tone--"Me knows dat sound!""Wot may it be, Tony?" asked Disco.There was neither time nor need for an answer, for at that moment aringing cry, something like a bad imitation of a British cheer, washeard, and a band of men sprang out of the woods and ran at full speedtowards our Englishmen."Why, Zombo!" exclaimed Disco, wildly."Oliveira!" cried Harold."Masiko!  Songolo!" shouted Antonio and Jumbo."An' Jose, Nakoda, Chimbolo, Mabruki!--the whole bun' of 'em," criedDisco, as one after another these worthies emerged from the wood andrushed in a state of frantic excitement towards their friends--"Hooray!""Hooroo-hay!" replied the runners.In another minute our adventurous party of travellers was re-united, andfor some time nothing but wild excitement, congratulations, queries thatgot no replies, and replies that ran tilt at irrelevant queries, withconfusion worse confounded by explosions of unbounded and irrepressiblelaughter not unmingled with tears, was the order of the hour."But wat! yoos ill?" cried Zombo suddenly, looking into Disco's facewith an anxious expression."Well, I ain't 'xac'ly ill, nor I ain't 'xac'ly well neither, but I'mhearty all the same, and werry glad to see your black face, Zombo.""Ho! hooroo-hay! so's me for see you," cried the excitable Zombo; "butcome, not good for talkee in de knees to watter.  Fall in boy, ho!sholler 'ums--queek mash!"That Zombo had assumed command of his party was made evident by the patway in which he trolled off the words of command formerly taught to himby Harold, as well as by the prompt obedience that was accorded to hisorders.  He led the party out of the swamp, and, on reaching a dry spot,halted, in order to make further inquiries and answer questions."How did you find us, Zombo?" asked Harold, throwing himself wearily onthe ground."_Yoos_ ill," said Zombo, holding up a finger by way of rebuke."So I am, though not so ill as I look.  But come, answer me.  How cameyou to discover us?  You could not have found us by mere chance in thiswilderness?""Chanz; wat am chanz?" asked the Makololo.There was some difficulty in getting Antonio to explain the word, fromthe circumstance of himself being ignorant of it, therefore Harold putthe question in a more direct form."Oh! ve comes here look for yoo, 'cause peepils d'reck 'ums--show deway.  Ve's been veeks, monts, oh! _days_ look for yoo.  Travil far--g'rong road--turin bak--try agin--fin' yoo now--hooroo-hay!""You may say that, indeed.  I'd have it in my heart," said Disco, "togive three good rousin' British cheers if it warn't for the thoughts o'that black-hearted villain, Marizano, an' his poor, miserable slaves.""Marizano!" shouted Chimbolo, glaring at Harold."Marizano!" echoed Zombo, glaring at Disco.Harold now explained to his friends that the slave-hunter was close athand--a piece of news which visibly excited them,--and described thecruelties of which he had recently been a witness.  Zombo showed histeeth like a savage mastiff, and grasped his musket as though he longedto use it, but he uttered no word until the narrative reached that pointin which the death of the poor captive was described.  Then he suddenlystarted forward and said something to his followers in the nativetongue, which caused each to fling down the small bundle that wasstrapped to his shoulders."Yoo stop here," he cried, earnestly, as he turned to Harold and Disco."Ve's com bak soon.  Ho! boys, sholler 'ums! queek mash!"No trained band of Britons ever obeyed with more ready alacrity.  Noattention was paid to Harold's questions.  The "queek mash" carried themout of sight in a few minutes, and when the Englishmen, who had runafter them a few paces, halted, under the conviction that in their weakcondition they might as well endeavour to keep up with race-horses aswith their old friends, they found that Antonio alone remained to keepthem company."Where's Jumbo?" inquired Harold."Gon' 'way wid oders," replied the interpreter.Examining the bundles of their friends, they found that their contentswere powder, ball, and food.  It was therefore resolved that a fireshould be kindled, and food prepared, to be ready for their friends ontheir return."I'm not so sure about their return," said Harold gravely.  "They willhave to fight against fearful odds if they find the slavers.  Foolishfellows; I wish they had not rushed away so madly without consultingus."The day passed; night came and passed also, and another day dawned, butthere was no appearance of Zombo and his men, until the sun had been upfor some hours.  Then they came back, wending their way slowly--veryslowly--through the woods, with the whole of the slave-gang, men, women,and children, at their heels!"Where is Marizano?" inquired Harold, almost breathless with surprise."Dead!" said Zombo."Dead?""Ay, dead, couldn't be deader.""And his armed followers?""Dead, too--some ob ums.  Ve got at um in de night.  Shotted Marizanoall to hatoms.  Shotted mos' ob um follerers too.  De res' all scatterlike leaves in de wind.  Me giv' up now," added Zombo, handing hismusket to Harold.  "Boys! orrer ums! mees Capitin not no more.  Now,Capitin Harol', yoos once more look afer us, an' take care ob all umspeepil."Having thus demitted his charge, the faithful Zombo stepped back andleft our hero in the unenviable position of a half broken-down man withthe responsibility of conducting an expedition, and disposing of a largegang of slaves in some unknown part of equatorial Africa!Leaving him there, we will proceed at once to the coast and follow, fora time, the fortunes of that archvillain, Yoosoof.CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.DESCRIBES "BLACK IVORY" AT SEA.Having started for the coast with a large gang of slaves a short timebefore Marizano, as we have already said, and having left the Englishmento the care of the half-caste, chiefly because he did not desire theircompany, although he had no objection to the ransom, Yoosoof proceededover the same track which we have already described in part, leaving abloody trail behind him.It is a fearful track, of about 500 miles in length, that which liesbetween the head of Lake Nyassa and the sea-coast at Kilwa.  We have nointention of dragging the reader over it to witness the cruelties andmurders that were perpetrated by the slavers, or the agonies endured bythe slaves.  Livingstone speaks of it as a land of death, of desolation,and dead men's bones.  And no wonder, for it is one of the main arteriesthrough which the blood of Africa flows, like the water of naturalrivers, to the sea.  The slave-gangs are perpetually passing eastwardthrough it--perpetually dropping four-fifths of their numbers on it asthey go.  Dr Livingstone estimates that, in some cases, not more than_one-tenth_ of the slaves captured reach the sea-coast alive.  It istherefore rather under than over-stating the case to say that out ofevery hundred starting from the interior, _eighty_ perish on the road.Yoosoof left with several thousands of strong and healthy men, women,and children--most of them being children--he arrived at Kilwa with onlyeight hundred.  The rest had sunk by the way, either from exhaustion orcruel treatment, or both.  The loss was great; but as regards the traderit could not be called severe, because the whole gang of slaves cost himlittle--some of them even nothing!--and the remaining eight hundredwould fetch a good price.  They were miserably thin, indeed, andexhibited on their poor, worn, and travel-stained bodies the evidence ofmany a cruel castigation; but Yoosoof knew that a little rest and goodfeeding at Kilwa would restore them to some degree of marketable value,and at Zanzibar he was pretty sure of obtaining, in round numbers, about10 pounds a head for them, while in the Arabian and Persian ports hecould obtain much more, if he chose to pass beyond the treaty-protectedwater at Lamoo, and run the risk of being captured by British cruisers.It is "piracy" to carry slaves north of Lamoo.  South of that point forhundreds of miles, robbery, rapine, murder, cruelty, such as devilscould not excel if they were to try, is a "domestic institution" withwhich Britons are pledged not to interfere!Since the above was written Sir Bartle Frere has returned from hismission, and we are told that a treaty has been signed by the Sultan ofZanzibar putting an end to this domestic slavery.  We have not yet seenthe terms of this treaty, and must go to press before it appears.  Wehave reason to rejoice and be thankful, however, that such an advantagehas been gained.  But let not the reader imagine that this settles thequestion of East African slavery.  Portugal still holds to the "domesticinstitution" in her colonies, and has decreed that it shall not expiretill the year 1878.  Decreed, in fact, that the horrors which we haveattempted to depict shall continue for five years longer!  And let it benoted, that the export slave-trade cannot be stopped as long as domesticslavery is permitted.  Besides this, there is a continual drain of humanbeings from Africa through Egypt.  Sir Samuel Baker's mission is a blowaimed at that; but nothing, that we know of, is being done in regard toPortuguese wickedness.  If the people of this country could only realisethe frightful state of things that exists in the African Portugueseterritory, and knew how many thousand bodies shall be racked withtorture, and souls be launched into eternity during these five years,they would indignantly insist that Portugal should be _compelled_ tostop it _at once_.  If it is righteous to constrain the Sultan ofZanzibar, is it not equally so to compel the King of Portugal?The arch robber and murderer, Yoosoof--smooth and oily of face, tongue,and manner though he was--possessed a bold spirit and a grasping heart.The domestic institution did not suit him.  Rather than sneak along hisvillainous course under its protecting "pass," he resolved to biddefiance to laws, treaties, and men-of-war to boot--as many hundreds ofhis compeers have done and do--and make a bold dash to the north withhis eight hundred specimens of Black Ivory.Accordingly, full of his purpose, one afternoon he sauntered up to thebarracoons in which his "cattle" were being rested and fed-up.Moosa, his chief driver, was busy among them with the lash, for, likeother cattle, they had a tendency to rebel, at least a few of them had;the most of them were by that time reduced to the callous conditionwhich had struck Harold and Disco so much on the occasion of theirvisits to the slave-market of Zanzibar.Moosa was engaged, when Yoosoof entered, in whipping most unmercifully asmall boy whose piercing shrieks had no influence whatever on histormentor.  Close beside them a large strong-boned man lay stretched onthe ground.  He had just been felled with a heavy stick by Moosa forinterfering.  He had raised himself on one elbow, while with his righthand he wiped away the blood that oozed from the wound in his head, andappeared to struggle to recover himself from the stunning blow."What has he been doing?" asked Yoosoof carelessly, in Portuguese."Oh, the old story, rebelling," said Moosa, savagely hurling the boyinto the midst of a group of cowering children, amongst whom heinstantly shrank as much as possible out of sight.  "That brute,"pointing to the prostrate man, "was a chief, it appears, in his owncountry, and has not yet got all the spirit lashed out of him.  But itcan't last much longer; either the spirit or the life must go.  He hascarried that little whelp the last part of the way on his back, and nowobjects to part with him,--got fond of him, I fancy.  If you had takenmy advice you would have cast them both to the hyenas long ago.""You are a bad judge of human flesh, Moosa," said Yoosoof, quietly;"more than once you have allowed your passion to rob me of a valuablepiece of goods.  This man will fetch a good price in Persia, and so willhis son.  I know that the child is his son, though the fool thinks noone knows that but himself, and rather prides himself on the clever wayin which he has continued to keep his whelp beside him on the journeydown.  Bah! what can one expect from such cattle?  Don't separate them,Moosa.  They will thrive better together.  If we only get them to marketin good condition, then we can sell them in separate lots withoutrisking loss of value from pining."In a somewhat sulky tone, for he was not pleased to be found fault withby his chief, the slave-driver ordered out the boy, who was little morethan five years old, though the careworn expression of his thin faceseemed to indicate a much more advanced age.Trembling with alarm, for he expected a repetition of the punishment,yet not daring to disobey, the child came slowly out from the midst ofhis hapless companions, and advanced.  The man who had partly recoveredrose to a sitting position, and regarded Moosa and the Arab with a lookof hatred so intense that it is quite certain he would have sprung atthem, if the heavy slave-stick had not rendered such an act impossible."Go, you little whelp," said Moosa, pointing to the fallen chief, and atthe same time giving the child a cut with the whip.With a cry of mingled pain and delight poor Obo, for it was he, rushedinto his father's open arms, and laid his sobbing head on his breast.He could not nestle into his neck as, in the days of old, he had beenwont to do,--the rough goree effectually prevented that.Kambira bent his head over the child and remained perfectly still.  Hedid not dare to move, lest any action, however inoffensive, might induceMoosa to change his mind and separate them again.Poor Kambira!  How different from the hearty, bold, kindly chief to whomwe introduced the reader in his own wilderness home!  His colossal framewas now gaunt in the extreme, and so thin that every rib stood out asthough it would burst the skin, and every joint seemed hideously large,while from head to foot his skin was crossed and recrossed with terribleweals, and scarred with open sores, telling of the horrible cruelties towhich he had been subjected in the vain attempt to tame his untameablespirit.  There can be no question that, if he had been left to thetender mercies of such Portuguese half-caste scoundrels as Moosa orMarizano, he would have been brained with an axe or whipped to deathlong ago.  But Yoosoof was more cool and calculating in his cruelty; hehad more respect for his pocket than for the gratification of his angryfeelings.  Therefore Kambira had reached the coast alive.Little had the simple chief imagined what awaited him on that coast, andon his way to it, when, in the fulness of his heart, he had stated toHarold Seadrift his determination to proceed thither in search ofAzinte.  Experience had now crushed hope, and taught him to despair.There was but one gleam of light in his otherwise black sky, and thatwas the presence of his boy.  Life had still one charm in it as long ashe could lay hold of Obo's little hand and hoist him, not quite soeasily as of yore, on his broad shoulders.  Yoosoof was sufficiently ajudge of human character to be aware that if he separated these two,Kambira would become more dangerous to approach than the fiercestmonster in the African wilderness."We must sail to-night and take our chance," said Yoosoof, turning awayfrom his captives; "the time allowed for our trade is past and I shallrun straight north without delay."The Arab here referred to the fact that the period of the year allowedby treaty for the "lawful slave-trade" of the Zanzibar dominions hadcome to an end.  That period extended over several months, and duringits course passes from the Sultan secured "domestic slavers" against theBritish cruisers.  After its expiration no export of slaves waspermitted anywhere; nevertheless a very large export was carried on,despite non-permission and cruisers.  Yoosoof meant to run the blockadeand take his chance."How many dhows have you got?" asked Yoosoof."Three," replied Moosa."That will do," returned the Arab after a few minutes' thought; "it willbe a tight fit at first, perhaps, but a few days at sea will rectifythat.  Even in the most healthy season and favourable conditions we mustunfortunately count on a good many losses.  We shall sail to-morrow."The morrow came, and three dhows left the harbour of Kilwa, hoistedtheir lateen sails, and steered northwards.They were densely crowded with slaves.  Even to the eye of a superficialobserver this would have been patent, for the upper deck of each was soclosely packed with black men, women, and children, that a square inchof it could not anywhere be seen.They were packed very systematically, in order to secure economicalstowage.  Each human being sat on his haunches with his thighs againsthis breast, and his knees touching his chin.  They were all ranged thusin rows, shoulder to shoulder, and back to shin, so that the deck wascovered with a solid phalanx of human flesh.  Change of posture was notprovided for: _it was not possible_.  There was no awning over the upperdeck.  The tropical sun poured its rays on the heads of the slaves allday.  The dews fell on them all night.  The voyage might last for daysor weeks, but there was no relief to the wretched multitude.  For nopurpose whatever could they move from their terrible position, save forthe one purpose of being thrown overboard when dead.But we have only spoken of the upper deck of these dhows.  Beneath thisthere was a temporary bamboo deck, with just space sufficient to admitof men being seated in the position above referred to.  This was alsocrowded, but it was not the "Black Hole" of the vessel.  That was lowerstill.  Seated on the stone ballast beneath the bamboo deck there wasyet another layer of humanity, whose condition can neither be describednor conceived.  Without air, without light, without room to move,without hope; with insufferable stench, with hunger and thirst, withheat unbearable, with agony of body and soul, with dread anticipationsof the future, and despairing memories of the past, they sat for daysand nights together--fed with just enough of uncooked rice and water tokeep soul and body together.Not enough in all cases, however, for many succumbed, especially amongthe women and children.Down in the lowest, filthiest, and darkest corner of this foul hold satKambira, with little Obo crushed against his shins.  It may be supposedthat there was a touch of mercy in this arrangement.  Let not the readersuppose so.  Yoosoof knew that if Kambira was to be got to market alive,Obo must go along with him.  Moosa also knew that if the strong-mindedchief was to be subdued at all, it would only be by the most terriblemeans.  Hence his position in the dhow.There was a man seated alongside of Kambira who for some time hadappeared to be ill.  He could not be seen, for the place was quite dark,save when a man came down with a lantern daily to serve out rice andwater; but Kambira knew that he was very ill from his groans and thequiverings of his body.  One night these groans ceased, and the manleaned heavily on the chief--not very heavily, however, he was tooclosely wedged in all round to admit of that.  Soon afterwards he becamevery cold, and Kambira knew that he was dead.  All that night and thegreater part of next day the dead man sat propped up by his livingcomrades.  When the daily visitor came down, attention was drawn to thebody and it was removed.Moosa, who was in charge of this dhow (Yoosoof having command ofanother), gave orders to have the slaves in the hold examined, and itwas discovered that three others were dead and two dying.  The dead werethrown overboard; the dying were left till they died, and then followedtheir released comrades.But now a worse evil befell that dhow.  Smallpox broke out among theslaves.It was a terrible emergency, but Moosa was quite equal to it.  Orderingthe infected, and suspected, slaves to be brought on deck, he examinedthem.  In this operation he was assisted and accompanied by two powerfularmed men.  There were passengers on board the dhow, chiefly Arabs, anda crew, as well as slaves.  The passengers and crew together numberedabout thirty-four, all of whom were armed to the teeth.  To these thisinspection was of great importance, for it was their interest to get ridof the deadly disease as fast as possible.The first slave inspected, a youth of about fifteen, was in an advancedstage of the disease, in fact, dying.  A glance was sufficient and at anod from Moosa, the two powerful men seized him and hurled him into thesea.  The poor creature was too far gone even to struggle for life.  Hesank like a stone.  Several children followed.  They were unquestionablysmitten with the disease, and were at once thrown overboard.  Whetherthe passengers felt pity or no we cannot say.  They expressed none, butlooked on in silence.So far the work was easy, but when men and women were brought up on whomthe disease had not certainly taken effect, Moosa was divided betweenthe desire to check the progress of the evil, and the desire to savevaluable property.The property itself also caused some trouble in a few instances, forwhen it became obvious to one or two of the stronger slave-girls and menwhat was going to be done with them, they made a hard struggle for theirlives, and the two strong men were under the necessity of using a knife,now and then, to facilitate the accomplishment of their purpose.  Butsuch cases were rare.  Most of the victims were callously submissive; itmight not be beyond the truth, in some cases, to say willinglysubmissive.Each day this scene was enacted, for Moosa was a very determined man,and full forty human beings were thus murdered, but the disease was notstayed.  The effort to check it was therefore given up, and the slaveswere left to recover or die where they sat.  See account of capture ofdhow by Captain Robert B. Cay, of H.M.S. "Vulture," in the _Times ofIndia_, 1872.While this was going on in the vessel commanded by Moosa, the other twodhows under Yoosoof and a man named Suliman had been lost sight of.  Butthis was a matter of little moment, as they were all bound for the samePersian port, and were pretty sure, British cruisers permitting, to meetthere at last.  Meanwhile the dhow ran short of water, and Moosa did notlike to venture at that time to make the land, lest he should be caughtby one of the hated cruisers or their boats.  He preferred to let thewretched slaves take their chance of dying of thirst--hoping, however,to lose only a few of the weakest, as water could be procured a littlefarther north with greater security.Thus the horrible work of disease, death, and murder went on, until anevent occurred which entirely changed the aspect of affairs on board thedhow.Early one morning, Moosa directed the head of his vessel towards theland with the intention of procuring the much needed water.  At the samehour and place two cutters belonging to H.M.S. `Firefly,' armed with gunand rocket, twenty men, and an interpreter, crept out under sail withthe fishing boats from a neighbouring village.  They were under thecommand of Lieutenants Small and Lindsay respectively.  For some daysthey had been there keeping vigilant watch, but had seen no dhows, andthat morning were proceeding out rather depressed by the influence of"hope deferred," when a sail was observed in the offing--or, rather, amast, for the sail of the dhow had been lowered--the owners intending towait until the tide should enable them to cross the bar."Out oars and give way, lads," was the immediate order; for it wasnecessary to get up all speed on the boats if the dhow was to be reachedbefore she had time to hoist her huge sail."I hope the haze will last," earnestly muttered Lieutenant Small in thefirst cutter."Oh that they may keep on sleeping for five minutes more," excitedlywhispered Lieutenant Lindsay in the second cutter.These hopes were coupled with orders to have the gun and rocket inreadiness.But the haze would not last to oblige Mr Small, neither would the Arabskeep on sleeping to please Mr Lindsay.  On the contrary, the hazedissipated, and the Arabs observed and recognised their enemies whenwithin about half a mile.  With wonderful celerity they hoisted sail andstood out to sea in the full-swing of the monsoon.There was no little probability that the boats would fail to overhaul avessel with so large a sail, therefore other means were instantlyresorted to."Fire!" said Mr Small."Fire!" cried Mr Lindsay.Bang went the gun, whiz went the rocket, almost at the same moment.  Arapid rifle-fire was also opened on the slaver--shot, rocket, and ballbespattered the sea and scattered foam in the air, but did no harm tothe dhow, a heavy sea and a strong wind preventing accuracy of aim."Give it them as fast as you can," was now the order; and well was theorder obeyed, for blue-jackets are notoriously smart men in action, andthe gun, the rocket, and the rifles kept up a smart iron storm forupwards of two hours, during which time the exciting chase lasted.At last Jackson, the linguist who was in the stern of Lindsay's boat,mortally wounded the steersman of the dhow with a rifle-ball at adistance of about six hundred yards.  Not long afterwards therocket-cutter, being less heavily weighted than her consort, creptahead, and when within about a hundred and fifty yards of the slaver,let fly a well-directed rocket.  It carried away the parrell whichsecured the yard of the dhow to the mast and brought the sail downinstantly on the deck."Hurra!" burst irresistibly from the blue-jackets.The Arabs were doubly overwhelmed, for besides getting the sail down ontheir heads, they were astonished and stunned by the shriek, smoke, andflame of the war-rocket.  The gun-cutter coming up at the moment the twoboats ranged alongside of the slaver, and boarded together.As we have said, the crew and passengers, numbering thirty-four, werearmed to the teeth, and they had stood by the halyards during the chasewith drawn _creases_, swearing to kill any one who should attempt toshorten sail.  These now appeared for a moment as though they meditatedresistance, but the irresistible dash of the sailors seemed to changetheir minds, for they submitted without striking a blow, though many ofthem were very reluctant to give up their swords and knives.Fortunately the `Firefly' arrived in search of her boats that evening,and the slaves were transferred to her deck.  But who shall describe theharrowing scene!  The dhow seemed a very nest of black ants, it was socrowded, and the sailors, who had to perform the duty of removing theslaves, were nearly suffocated by the horrible stench.  Few of theslaves could straighten themselves after their long confinement.  Indeedsome of them were unable to stand for days afterwards, and many died onboard the `Firefly' before they reached a harbour of refuge and freedom.Those taken from the hold were in the worst condition, especially thechildren, many of whom were in the most loathsome stages of smallpox,and scrofula of every description.  They were so emaciated and weak thatmany had to be carried on board, and lifted for every movement.Kambira, although able to stand, was doubled up like an old man, andpoor little Obo trembled and staggered when he attempted to follow hisfather, to whom he still clung as to his last and only refuge.To convey these poor wretches to a place where they could be cared forwas now Captain Romer's chief anxiety.  First however, he landed thecrew and passengers, with the exception of Moosa and three of his men.The filthy dhow was then scuttled and sunk, after which the `Firefly'steamed away for Aden, that being the nearest port where the rescuedslaves could be landed and set free.CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.THE REMEDY.Reader, we will turn aside at this point to preach you a lay sermon, ifyou will lend an attentive ear.  It shall be brief, and straight to thepoint.  Our text is,--Prevention and Cure.There are at least three great channels by which the life-blood ofAfrica is drained.  One trends to the east through the Zanzibardominions, another to the south-east through the Portuguesedependencies, and a third to the north through Egypt.  If theslave-trade is to be effectually checked, the flow through these threechannels must be stopped.  It is vain to rest content with the stoppageof one leak in our ship if two other leaks are left open.Happily, in regard to the first of these channels, Sir Bartle Frere hasbeen successful in making a grand stride in the way of prevention.  Ifthe Sultan of Zanzibar holds to his treaty engagements, "domesticslavery" in his dominions is at an end.  Nevertheless, our fleet will berequired just as much as ever to prevent the unauthorised, piratical,slave-trade, and this, after all, is but one-third of the preventivework we have to do.  Domestic slavery remains untouched in thePortuguese dependencies, and Portugal has decreed that it shall remainuntouched until the year 1878!  It is well that we should be thoroughlyimpressed with the fact that so long as slavery in any form istolerated, the internal--we may say infernal--miseries and horrors whichwe have attempted to depict will continue to blight the land andbrutalise its people.  Besides this, justice demands that the sameconstraint which we lay on the Sultan of Zanzibar should be applied tothe King of Portugal.  We ought to insist that _his_ "domestic slavery"shall cease at _once_.  Still further, as Sir Bartle Frere himself hasrecommended, we should urge upon our Government the appointment ofefficient consular establishments in the Portuguese dependencies, aswell as vigilance in securing the observance of the treaties signed bythe Sultans of Zanzibar and Muscat.A recent telegram from Sir Samuel Baker assures us that a great step hasbeen made in the way of checking the tide of slavery in the third--theEgyptian--channel, and Sir Bartle Frere bears testimony to the desire ofthe Khedive that slavery should be put down in his dominions.  For thiswe have reason to be thankful; and the appearance of affairs in thatquarter is hopeful, but our hope is mingled with anxiety, becausemankind is terribly prone to go to sleep on hopeful appearances.  Ournature is such, that our only chance of success lies, under God, inresolving ceaselessly to energise until our ends be accomplished.  Wemust see to it that the Khedive of Egypt acts in accordance with hisprofessions, and for this end efficient consular agency is as needful inthe north-east as in the south-east.So much for prevention, but prevention is not cure.  In order toaccomplish this two things are necessary.  There must be points orcentres of refuge for the oppressed on the _mainland_ of Africa, andthere must be the introduction of the Bible.  The first is essential tothe second.  Where anarchy, murder, injustice, and tyranny are rampantand triumphant, the advance of the missionary is either terribly slow oraltogether impossible.  The life-giving, soul-softening Word of God, isthe only remedy for the woes of mankind, and, therefore, the only curefor Africa.  To introduce it effectually, and along with it civilisationand all the blessings that flow therefrom, it is indispensable thatGreat Britain should obtain, by treaty or by purchase, one or more smallpieces of land, there to establish free Christian negro settlements, andthere, with force sufficient to defend them from the savages, and worsethan savages,--the Arab and Portuguese half-caste barbarians and lawlessmen who infest the land--hold out the hand of friendship to all nativeswho choose to claim her protection from the man-stealer, and offer toteach them the blessed truths of Christianity and the arts ofcivilisation.  Many of the men who are best fitted to give an opinion onthe point agree in holding that some such centre, or centres, on themainland are essential to the permanent cure of slavery, although theydiffer a little as to the best localities for them.  Take, for instance,Darra Salaam on the coast, the Manganja highlands near the river Shire,and Kartoum on the Nile.  Three such centres would, if established,begin at once to dry up the slave-trade at its three fountain-heads,while our cruisers would check it on the coast.  In these centres oflight and freedom the negroes might see exemplified the blessings ofChristianity and civilisation, and, thence, trained native missionariesmight radiate into all parts of the vast continent armed only with theWord of God, the shield of Faith, and the sword of the Spirit in orderto preach the glad tidings of salvation through Jesus Christ our Lord.In brief, the great points on which we ought as a nation, to insist, arethe _immediate_ abolition of the slave-trade in Portuguese dependencies;the scrupulous fulfilment of treaty obligations by the Sultans ofZanzibar and Muscat, the Shah of Persia, and the Khedive of Egypt; theestablishment by our Government of efficient consular agencies wheresuch are required; the acquisition of territory on the mainland for thepurposes already mentioned, and the united action of all Christians inour land to raise funds and send men to preach the Gospel to the negro.So doing we shall, with God's blessing, put an end to the Easternslave-trade, save equatorial Africa, and materially increase thecommerce, the riches, and the happiness of the world.CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.TELLS OF SAD SIGHTS, AND SUDDEN EVENTS, AND UNEXPECTED MEETINGS.In the course of time, our hero, Harold Seadrift, and his faithful ally,Disco Lillihammer, after innumerable adventures which we are unwillinglyobliged to pass over in silence, returned to the coast and, in thecourse of their wanderings in search of a vessel which should conveythem to Zanzibar, found themselves at last in the town of GovernorLetotti.  Being English travellers, they were received as guests by theGovernor, and Harold was introduced to Senhorina Maraquita.Passing through the market-place one day, they observed a crowd roundthe flag-staff in the centre of the square, and, following theirresistible tendency of human nature in such circumstances, ran to seewhat was going on.They found that a slave was about to be publicly whipped by soldiers.The unhappy man was suspended by the wrists from the flag-staff, and asingle cord of coir round his waist afforded him additional support."Come away, we can do no good here," said Harold, in a low, sorrowfultone, which was drowned in the shriek of the victim, as the first lashfell on his naked shoulders."Pra'ps he's a criminal," suggested Disco, as he hurried away,endeavouring to comfort himself with the thought that the man probablydeserved punishment.  "It's not the whippin' I think so much of," headded; "that is the only thing as will do for some characters, but it'sthe awful cruelties that goes along with it."Returning through the same square about an hour later, having almostforgotten about the slave by that time, they were horrified to observethat the wretched man was still hanging there.Hastening towards him, they found that he was gasping for breath.  Hisveins were bursting, and his flesh was deeply lacerated by the cordswith which he was suspended.  He turned his head as the Englishmenapproached, and spoke a few words which they did not understand; but theappealing look of his bloodshot eyes spoke a language that required nointerpreter.At an earlier period in their career in Africa, both Harold and Discowould have acted on their first impulse, and cut the man down; butexperience had taught them that this style of interference, while it puttheir own lives in jeopardy, had sometimes the effect of increasing thepunishment and sufferings of those whom they sought to befriend.Acting on a wiser plan, they resolved to appeal to Governor Letotti inhis behalf.  They therefore ran to his residence, where Maraquita, whoconversed with Harold in French, informed them that her father was inthe "Geresa," or public palaver house.  To that building they hastened,and found that it was in the very square they had left.  But SenhorLetotti was not there.  He had observed the Englishmen coming, and,having a shrewd guess what their errand was, had disappeared and hidhimself.  His chief-officer informed them that he had left the townearly in the morning, and would not return till the afternoon.Harold felt quite sure that this was a falsehood, but of course wasobliged to accept it as truth."Is there no one to act for the Governor in his absence?" he asked,anxiously.No, there was no one; but after a few minutes the chief-officer appearedto be overcome by Harold's earnest entreaties, and said that he couldtake upon himself to act, that he would suspend the punishment till theGovernor's return, when Harold might prefer his petition to him inperson.Accordingly, the slave was taken down.  In the afternoon Harold saw theGovernor, and explained that he did not wish to interfere with hisprovince as a magistrate, but that what he had witnessed was so shockingthat he availed himself of his privilege as a guest to pray that theman's punishment might be mitigated.Governor Letotti's health had failed him of late, and he had sufferedsome severe disappointments in money matters, so that his wontedamiability had been considerably reduced.  He objected, at first, tointerfere with the course of justice; but finally gave a reluctantconsent, and the man was pardoned.  Afterwards, however, when ourtravellers were absent from the town for a day, the wretched slave wasagain tied up, and the full amount of his punishment inflicted; in otherwords, he was flogged to death.  [For the incident on which this isfounded we are indebted to the Reverend Doctor Ryan, late Bishop of theMauritius.]This incident had such an effect on the mind of Harold, that he resolvedno longer to accept the hospitality of Governor Letotti.  He had somedifficulty, however, in persuading himself to carry his resolve intoeffect, for the Governor, although harsh in his dealing with the slave,had been exceedingly kind and amiable to himself; but an unexpectedevent occurred which put an end to his difficulties.  This was theillness and sudden death of his host.Poor, disconsolate Maraquita, in the first passion of her grief, fled tothe residence of the only female friend she had in the town, and refusedfirmly to return home.  Thus it came to pass that Harold's intercoursewith the Senhorina was cut short at its commencement, and thus he missedthe opportunity of learning something of the fortunes of Azinte; for itis certain that, if they had conversed much together, as would probablyhave been the case had her father lived, some mention of theslave-girl's name could not fail to have been made, and their mutualknowledge of her to have been elicited and interchanged.In those days there was no regular communication between one point andanother of the east coast of Africa and the neighbouring islands.Travellers had frequently to wait long for a chance; and when they gotone were often glad to take advantage of it without being fastidious asto its character.  Soon after the events above narrated, a small tradingschooner touched at the port.  It was bound for the Seychelles,intending to return by Zanzibar and Madagascar, and proceed to the Cape.Harold would rather have gone direct to Zanzibar, but, having plenty oftime on his hands, as well as means, he was content to avail himself ofthe opportunity, and took passage in the schooner for himself, Disco,and Jumbo.  That sable and faithful friend was the only one of hiscompanions who was willing to follow him anywhere on the face of theearth.  The others received their pay and their discharge with smilingfaces, and scattered to their several homes--Antonio departing tocomplete his interrupted honeymoon.Just before leaving, Harold sought and obtained permission to visitMaraquita, to bid her good-bye.  The poor child was terribly overwhelmedby the death of her father, and could not speak of him without givingway to passionate grief.  She told Harold that she meant to leave thecoast by the first opportunity that should offer, and proceed to theCape of Good Hope, where, in some part of the interior, lived an oldaunt, the only relative she now had on earth, who, she knew, would beglad to receive her.  Our hero did his best to comfort the poor girl,and expressed deep sympathy with her, but felt that his power to consolewas very small indeed.  After a brief interview he bade her farewell.The voyage which our travellers now commenced was likely to be ofconsiderable duration, for the Seychelles Islands lie a long way to theeastward of Africa, but as we have said, time was of no importance toHarold, and he was not sorry to have an opportunity of visiting a groupof islands which are of some celebrity in connexion with the EastAfrican slave-trade.  Thus, all unknown to himself or Disco, as well asto Maraquita, who would have been intensely interested had she known thefact, he was led towards the new abode of our sable heroine Azinte.But alas! for Kambira and Obo,--they were being conveyed, also, ofcourse, unknown to themselves or to any one else, further and furtheraway from one whom they would have given their heart's blood to meetwith and embrace, and it seemed as if there were not a chance of anygleam of light bridging over the ever widening gulf that lay betweenthem, for although Lieutenant Lindsay knew that Azinte had been left atthe Seychelles, he had not the remotest idea that Kambira was Azinte'shusband, and among several hundreds of freed slaves the secondlieutenant of the `Firefly' was not likely to single out, and holdconverse with a chief whose language he did not understand, and who, asfar as appearances went, was almost as miserable, sickly, and degradedas were the rest of the unhappy beings by whom he was surrounded.Providence, however, turned the tide of affairs in favour of Kambira andhis son.  On reaching Zanzibar Captain Romer had learned from thecommander of another cruiser that Aden was at that time somewhatoverwhelmed with freed slaves, a considerable number of captures havingbeen recently made about the neighbourhood of that great rendezvous ofslavers, the island of Socotra.The captain therefore changed his mind, and once more very unwillinglydirected his course towards the distant Seychelles.On the way thither many of the poor negroes died, but many began torecover strength under the influence of kind treatment and generousdiet.  Among these latter was Kambira.  His erect gait and manly looksoon began to return, and his ribs, so to speak, to disappear.  It wasotherwise with poor Obo.  The severity of the treatment to which he hadbeen exposed was almost too much for so young a frame.  He lost appetiteand slowly declined, notwithstanding the doctor's utmost care.This state of things continuing until the `Firefly' arrived at theSeychelles, Obo was at once conveyed to the hospital which we havereferred to as having been established there.Azinte chanced to be absent in the neighbouring town on some errandconnected with her duties as nurse, when her boy was laid on his bedbeside a number of similar sufferers.  It was a sad sight to beholdthese little ones.  Out of the original eighty-three children who hadbeen placed there forty-seven had died in three weeks, and the remnantwere still in a pitiable condition.  While on their beds of pain,tossing about in their delirium, the minds of these little onesfrequently ran back to their forest homes, and while some, in spirit,laughed and romped once more around their huts, thousands of miles awayon the banks of some African river, others called aloud in theirsufferings for the dearest of all earthly beings to them--their mothers.Some of them also whispered the name of Jesus, for the missionary hadbeen careful to tell them the story of our loving Lord, while tendingtheir poor bodies.Obo had fevered slightly, and in the restless half-slumber into which hefell on being put to bed, he, too, called earnestly for his mother.  In_his_ case, poor child, the call was not in vain.Lieutenant Lindsay and the doctor of the ship, with Kambira, hadaccompanied Obo to the hospital."Now, Lindsay," said the doctor, when the child had been made ascomfortable as circumstances would admit of, "this man must not be lefthere, for he will be useless, and it is of the utmost consequence thatthe child should have some days of absolute repose.  What shall we dowith him?""Take him on board again," said Lindsay.  "I daresay we shall find himemployment for a short time.""If you will allow me to take charge of him," interposed the missionary,who was standing by them at the time, "I can easily find him employmentin the neighbourhood, so that he can come occasionally to see his childwhen we think it safe to allow him.""That will be the better plan," said the doctor, "for as long as--"A short sharp cry near the door of the room cut the sentence short.All eyes were turned in that direction and they beheld Azinte gazingwildly at them, and standing as if transformed to stone.The instant Kambira saw his wife he leaped up as if he had received anelectric shock, bounded forward like a panther, uttered a shout that didfull credit to the chief of a warlike African tribe, and seized Azintein his arms.No wonder that thirty-six little black heads leaped from thirty-sixlittle white pillows, and displayed all the whites of seventy-two eyesthat were anything but little, when this astonishing scene took place!But Kambira quickly recovered himself, and, grasping Azinte by the arm,led her gently towards the bed which had just been occupied, and pointedto the little one that slumbered uneasily there.  Strangely enough, justat the moment little Obo again whispered the word "mother."Poor Azinte's eyes seemed ready to start from their sockets.  Shestretched out her arms and tried to rush towards her child, but Kambiraheld her back."Obo is very sick," he said, "you must touch him tenderly."The chief looked into his wife's eyes, saw that she understood him, andlet her go.Azinte crept softly to the bed, knelt down beside it and put her arms sosoftly round Obo that she scarcely moved him, yet she gradually drew himtowards her until his head rested on her swelling bosom, and she pressedher lips tenderly upon his brow.  It was an old familiar attitude whichseemed to pierce the slumbers of the child with a pleasant reminiscence,and dissipate his malady, for he heaved a deep sigh of contentment andsank into profound repose."Good!" said the doctor, in a low tone, with a significant nod toLindsay, when an interpreter had explained what had been already guessedby all present, that Kambira and Azinte were man and wife; "Obo has abetter chance now of recovery than I had anticipated; for joy goes along way towards effecting a cure.  Come, we will leave them together."Kambira was naturally anxious to remain, but like all commandingspirits, he had long ago learned that cardinal virtue, "obedience towhom obedience is due."  When it was explained to him that it would befor Obo's advantage to be left alone with his mother for a time, hearose, bowed his head, and meekly followed his friends out of the room.Exactly one week from that date little Obo had recovered so much of hisformer health that he was permitted to go out into the air, and, a fewdays later, Lieutenant Lindsay resolved to take him, and his father andmother, on board the `Firefly,' by way of a little ploy.  In pursuanceof this plan he set off from the hospital in company with Kambira,followed at a short distance by Azinte and Obo.Poor Lindsay! his heart was heavy, while he did his best to convey indumb show his congratulations to Kambira, for he saw in this unexpectedre-union an insurmountable difficulty in the way of taking Azinte backto her former mistress--not that he had ever seen the remotest chance ofhis being able to achieve that desirable end before this difficultyarose, but love is at times insanely hopeful, just as at other times--and with equally little reason--it is madly despairing.He had just made some complicated signs with hands, mouth, and eyebrows,and had succeeded in rendering himself altogether incomprehensible tohis sable companion, when, on rounding a turn of the path that led tothe harbour, he found himself suddenly face to face with HaroldSeadrift, Disco Lillihammer, and their follower, Jumbo, all of whom hadlanded from a schooner, which, about an hour before, had cast anchor inthe bay."Mr Lindsay!"  "Mr Seadrift!" exclaimed each to the othersimultaneously, for the reader will remember that they had met oncebefore when our heroes were rescued from Yoosoof by the "Firefly.""Kambira!" shouted Disco."Azinte!" cried Harold, as our sable heroine came into view."Obo!" roared the stricken mariner.Jumbo could only vent his feelings in an appalling yell and an impromptuwar-dance round the party, in which he was joined by Disco, whoperformed a hornpipe with Obo in his arms, to the intense delight ofthat convalescent youngster.Thus laughing, questioning, shouting, and dancing, they all effervescedtowards the shore like a band of lunatics just escaped from Bedlam!CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.THE LAST."How comes it," said Lieutenant Lindsay to Harold, on the firstfavourable opportunity that occurred after the meeting described in thelast chapter; "how comes it that you and Kambira know each other sowell?""I might reply by asking," said Harold, with a smile, "how comes it thatyou are so well acquainted with Azinte? but, before putting thatquestion, I will give a satisfactory answer to your own."Hereupon he gave a brief outline of those events, already narrated infull to the reader, which bore on his first meeting with the slave-girl,and his subsequent sojourn with her husband."After leaving the interior," continued our hero, "and returning to thecoast, I visited various towns in order to observe the state of theslaves in the Portuguese settlements, and, truly, what I saw was mostdeplorable--demoralisation and cruelty, and the obstruction of lawfultrade, prevailed everywhere.  The settlements are to my mind a verypandemonium on earth.  Every one seemed to me more or less affected bythe accursed atmosphere that prevails.  Of course there must be someexceptions.  I met with one, at the last town I visited, in the personof Governor Letotti.""Letotti!" exclaimed Lindsay, stopping abruptly."Yes!" said Harold, in some surprise at the lieutenant's manner, "and amost amiable man he was--""Was!--was!  What do you mean?  Is--is he dead?" exclaimed Lindsay,turning pale."He died suddenly just before I left," said Harold."And Maraquita--I mean his daughter--what of her?" asked the lieutenant,turning as red as he had previously turned pale.Harold noted the change, and a gleam of light seemed to break upon himas he replied:--"Poor girl, she was overwhelmed at first by the heavy blow.  I had toquit the place almost immediately after the event.""Did you know her well?" asked Lindsay, with an uneasy glance at hiscompanion's handsome face."No; I had just been introduced to her shortly before her father'sdeath, and have scarcely exchanged a dozen sentences with her.  It issaid that her father died in debt, but of course in regard to that Iknow nothing certainly.  At parting, she told me that she meant to leavethe coast and go to stay with a relative at the Cape."The poor lieutenant's look on hearing this was so peculiar, not to sayalarming, that Harold could not help referring to it, and Lindsay was somuch overwhelmed by such unexpected news, and, withal, so stronglyattracted by Harold's sympathetic manner, that he straightway made aconfidant of him, told him of his love for Maraquita, of Maraquita'slove for Azinte, of the utter impossibility of his being able to takeAzinte back to her old mistress, now that she had found her husband andchild, even if it had been admissible for a lieutenant in the Britishnavy to return freed negroes again into slavery, and wound up withbitter lamentations as to his unhappy fate, and expressions of poignantregret that fighting and other desperate means, congenial and easy tohis disposition, were not available in the circumstances.  After whichexplosion he subsided, felt ashamed of having thus committed himself,and looked rather foolish.But Harold quickly put him at his ease.  He entered on the subject withearnest gravity."It strikes me, Lindsay," he said thoughtfully, after the lieutenant hadfinished, "that I can aid you in this affair; but you must not ask mehow at present.  Give me a few hours to think over it, and then I shallhave matured my plans."Of course the lieutenant hailed with heartfelt gratitude the gleam ofhope held out to him, and thus the friends parted for a time.That same afternoon Harold sat under a palm-tree in company with Disco,Jumbo, Kambira, Azinte, and Obo."How would you like to go with me to the Cape of Good Hope, Kambira?"asked Harold abruptly."Whar dat?" asked the chief through Jumbo."Far away to the south of Africa," answered Harold.  "You know that youcan never go back to your own land now, unless you want to be againenslaved.""Him say him no' want to go back," interpreted Jumbo; "got all him carefor now--Azinte and Obo.""Then do you agree to go with me?" said Harold.To this Kambira replied heartily that he did."W'y, wot do 'ee mean for to do with 'em?" asked Disco, in somesurprise."I will get them comfortably settled there," replied Harold.  "My fatherhas a business friend in Cape Town who will easily manage to put me inthe way of doing it.  Besides, I have a particular reason for wishing totake Azinte there.--Ask her, Jumbo, if she remembers a young lady namedSenhorina Maraquita Letotti."To this Azinte replied that she did, and the way in which her eyessparkled proved that she remembered her with intense pleasure."Well, tell her," rejoined Harold, "that Maraquita has grieved very muchat losing her, and is _very_ anxious to get her back again--not as aslave, but as a friend, for no slavery is allowed in English settlementsanywhere, and I am sure that Maraquita hates slavery as much as I do,though she is not English, so I intend to take her and Kambira and Oboto the Cape, where Maraquita is living--or will be living soon.""Ye don't stick at trifles, sir," said Disco, whose eyes, on hearingthis, assumed a thoughtful, almost a troubled look."My plan does not seem to please you," said Harold."Please me, sir, w'y shouldn't it please me?  In course you knows best;I was only a little puzzled, that's all."Disco said no more, but he thought a good deal, for he had noted thebeauty and sprightliness of Maraquita, and the admiration with whichHarold had first beheld her; and it seemed to him that this ratherpowerful method of attempting to gratify the Portuguese girl was proofpositive that Harold had lost his heart to her.Harold guessed what was running in Disco's mind, but did not care toundeceive him, as, in so doing, he might run some risk of betraying thetrust reposed in him by Lindsay.The captain of the schooner, being bound for the Cape after visitingZanzibar, was willing to take these additional passengers, and theanxious lieutenant was induced to postpone total and irrevocabledespair, although, Maraquita being poor, and he being poor, andpromotion in the service being very slow, he had little reason tobelieve his prospects much brighter than they were before,--poor fellow!------------------------------------------------------------------------Time passed on rapid wing--as time is notoriously prone to do--and thefortunes of our _dramatis personae_ varied somewhat.Captain Romer continued to roam the Eastern seas, along with brothercaptains, and spent his labour and strength in rescuing a few hundredsof captives from among the hundreds of thousands that were continuallyflowing out of unhappy Africa.  Yoosoof and Moosa continued to throw aboat-load or two of damaged "cattle" in the way of the British cruisers,as a decoy, and succeeded on the whole pretty well in running fullcargoes of valuable Black Ivory to the northern markets.  The Sultan ofZanzibar continued to assure the British Consul that he heartilysympathised with England in her desire to abolish slavery, and to allowhis officials, for a "consideration," to prosecute the slave-trade toany extent they pleased!  Portugal continued to assure England of hersympathy and co-operation in the good work of repression, and hersubjects on the east coast of Africa continued to export thousands ofslaves under the protection of the Portuguese and French flags, stylingthem _free engages_.  British-Indian subjects--the Banyans ofZanzibar,--continued to furnish the sinews of war which kept thegigantic trade in human flesh going on merrily.  Murders, etcetera,continued to be perpetrated, tribes to be plundered, and hearts to bebroken--of course "legally" and "domestically," as well as piratically--during this rapid flight of time.But nearly everything in this life has its bright lights and half-tints,as well as its deep shadows.  During the same flight of time, humaneindividuals have continued to urge on the good cause of the totalabolition of slavery, and Christian missionaries have continued, despitethe difficulties of slave-trade, climate, and human apathy, to sow hereand there on the coasts the precious seed of Gospel truth, which wetrust shall yet be sown broad-cast by native hands, throughout thelength and breadth of that mighty land.To come more closely to the subjects of our tale:Chimbolo, with his recovered wife and child, sought safety from theslavers in the far interior, and continued to think with pleasure andgratitude of the two Englishmen who hated slavery, and who had gone toAfrica just in the nick of time to rescue that unhappy slave who hadbeen almost flogged to death, and was on the point of being drowned inthe Zambesi in a sack.  Mokompa, also, continued to poetise, as in daysgone by, having made a safe retreat with Chimbolo, and, among otherthings, enshrined all the deeds of the two white men in native verse.Yambo continued to extol play, admire, and propagate the life-sizedjumping-jack to such an extent that, unless his career has been cutshort by the slavers, we fully expect to find that creature a "domesticinstitution" when the slave-trade has been crushed, and Africa openedup--as in the end it is certain to be.During the progress and continuance of all these things, you may be sureour hero was not idle.  He sailed, as proposed, with Kambira, Azinte,Obo, Disco, and Jumbo for Zanzibar, touched at the town over which poorSenhor Francisco Alfonso Toledo Bignoso Letotti had ruled, found thatthe Senhorina had taken her departure; followed, as Disco said, in herwake; reached the Cape, hunted her up, found her out and presented toher, with Lieutenant Lindsay's compliments, the African chief Kambira,his wife Azinte, and his son Obo!Poor Maraquita, being of a passionately affectionate and romanticdisposition, went nearly mad with joy, and bestowed so many gratefulglances and smiles on Harold that Disco's suspicions were confirmed, andthat bold mariner wished her, Maraquita, "at the bottom of the sea!" forDisco disliked foreigners, and could not bear the thought of his friendbeing caught by one of them.Maraquita introduced Harold to her aunt, a middle-aged, leather-skinned,excessively dark-eyed daughter of Portugal.  She also introduced him toa bosom friend, at that time on a visit to her aunt.  The bosom friendwas an auburn-haired, fair-skinned, cheerful-spirited English girl.Before her, Harold Seadrift at once, without an instant's warning, fellflat down, figuratively speaking of course, and remained so--strickenthrough the heart!The exigencies of our tale require, at this point, that we should drawour outline with a bold and rapid pencil.Disco Lillihammer was stunned, and so was Jumbo, when Harold, some weeksafter their arrival at the Cape, informed them that he was engaged to bemarried to Alice Gray, only daughter of the late Sir Eustace Gray, whohad been M.P. for some county in England, which he had forgotten thename of, Alice not having been able to recall it, as her father had diedwhen she was four years old, leaving her a fortune of next-to-nothing ayear, and a sweet temper.Being incapable of further stunning, Disco was rather revived thanotherwise, and his dark shadow was resuscitated, when Harold added thatKambira had become Maraquita's head-gardener, Azinte cook to theestablishment, and Obo page-in-waiting--more probably page-in-mischief--to the young Senhorina.  But both Disco and Jumbo had a relapse fromwhich they were long of recovering, when Harold went on to say that hemeant to sail for England by the next mail, take Jumbo with him asvalet, make proposals to his father to establish a branch of their houseat the Cape, come back to manage the branch, marry Alice, and reside inthe neighbourhood of the Senhorina Maraquita Letotti's dwelling."You means wot you say, I s'pose?" asked Disco."Of course I do," said Harold."An' yer goin' to take Jumbo as yer walley?""Yes.""H'm; I'll go too as yer keeper.""My what?""Yer keeper--yer strait-veskit buckler, for if you ain't a loonatic yeought to be."But Disco did not go to England in that capacity.  He remained at theCape to assist Kambira, at the express command of Maraquita; andcontinued there until Harold returned, bringing Lieutenant Lindsay withhim as a partner in the business; until Harold was married and requireda gardener for his own domain; until the Senhorina became Mrs Lindsay;until a large and thriving band of little Cape colonists found itnecessary to have a general story-teller and adventure-recounter with anautical turn of mind; until, in short, he found it convenient to go toEngland himself for the gal of his heart who had been photographed thereyears before, and could be rubbed off neither by sickness, sunstroke,nor adversity.When Disco had returned to the colony with the original of the saidphotograph, and had fairly settled down on his own farm, then it wasthat he was wont at eventide to assemble the little colonists round him,light his pipe, and, through its hazy influence, recount hisexperiences, and deliver his opinions on the slave-trade of East Africa.Sometimes he was pathetic, sometimes humorous, but, however jocular hemight be on other subjects, he invariably became very grave and veryearnest when he touched on the latter theme."There's only one way to cure it," he was wont to say, "and that is, tobring the Portuguese and Arabs to their marrow-bones; put the fleet onthe east coast in better workin' order; have consuls everywhere, withorders to keep their weather-eyes open to the slave-dealers; start twoor three British settlements--ports o' refuge--on the mainland; hoistthe Union Jack, and, last but not least, send 'em the Bible."We earnestly commend the substance of Disco's opinions to the reader,for there is urgent need for action.  There is death where life shouldbe; ashes instead of beauty; desolation in place of fertility, and, evenwhile we write, terrible activity in the horrible traffic in--"BlackIvory."THE END.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Black Ivory, by R.M. Ballantyne*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLACK IVORY ******** This file should be named 21748.txt or 21748.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/1/7/4/21748/Produced by Nick Hodson of London, EnglandUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's Mr. Punch's After-Dinner Stories,edited by J. A. HammertonThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: Mr. Punch's After-Dinner StoriesEditor: J. A. HammertonIllustrator: John Leech             and othersRelease Date: October 1, 2010 [EBook #33824]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MR. PUNCH'S AFTER-DINNER STORIES ***Produced by Neville Allen, Chris Curnow and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Thisfile was produced from images generously made availableby The Internet Archive)  PUNCH LIBRARY OF HUMOUR  Edited by J. A. HAMMERTON    Designed to provide in a series of volumes, each complete in itself,    the cream of our national humour, contributed by the masters of    comic draughtsmanship and the leading wits of the age to "Punch,"    from its beginning in 1841 to the present dayMR. PUNCH'S AFTER-DINNER STORIES[Illustration][Illustration: PROGRESS.--"I maintain that the race has improved inphysique since those days. Now _we_ couldn't get into that armour!"]       *       *       *       *       *MR. PUNCH'S AFTER-DINNER STORIES_WITH 155 ILLUSTRATIONS_BYJOHN LEECH, CHARLES KEENE, GEORGE DU MAURIER, PHIL MAY, L. RAVEN-HILL,J. BERNARD PARTRIDGE, F. H. TOWNSEND, REGINALD CLEAVER, LEWIS BAUMER,A. S. BOYD, TOM WILKINSON, G. D. ARMOUR, AND OTHERS[Illustration]PUBLISHED BY ARRANGEMENT WITH THE PROPRIETORS OF "PUNCH"THE EDUCATIONAL BOOK CO. LTD.       *       *       *       *       *THE PUNCH LIBRARY OF HUMOUR_Twenty-five volumes, crown 8vo, 192 pages fully illustrated_  LIFE IN LONDON  COUNTRY LIFE  IN THE HIGHLANDS  SCOTTISH HUMOUR  IRISH HUMOUR  COCKNEY HUMOUR  IN SOCIETY  AFTER DINNER STORIES  IN BOHEMIA  AT THE PLAY  MR. PUNCH AT HOME  ON THE CONTINONG  RAILWAY BOOK  AT THE SEASIDE  MR. PUNCH AFLOAT  IN THE HUNTING FIELD  MR. PUNCH ON TOUR  WITH ROD AND GUN  MR. PUNCH AWHEEL  BOOK OF SPORTS  GOLF STORIES  IN WIG AND GOWN  ON THE WARPATH  BOOK OF LOVE  WITH THE CHILDREN[Illustration]       *       *       *       *       *POST-PRANDIAL WIT[Illustration]There is a sense, of course, in which everything from the pages of MR.PUNCH might be regarded as coming into a collection entitled "AfterDinner Stories." All good stories are really for telling after dinner.Somehow or other one seldom associates wit and humour with the breakfasttable, although the celebrated breakfast parties of Rogers, the banker,were doubtless in no way deficient in either. Over the walnuts and wine,when men have feasted well and are feeling on the best of terms withthemselves and their fellows, the cares of the day put past and thepleasures of the gas-lit hours begun, that is undoubtedly the ideal timefor the flow of wit.It must not, therefore, be thought that the present volume is in anywisedistinguished from the others of the series to which it belongs in theappropriateness of its contents for the dinner party. No more than anyof its companions is it designed to that end; but as it is concernedalmost exclusively with the humours of dining, with stories of diners,it will be admitted that its title is not without justification. Privatedinner parties, public banquets, the solitary dinner at the restaurant,the giving and accepting of invitations, these and many other phases ofdining come within its scope, and if it be noticed that a considerableamount of its humour has something of the fragrance of good old port--tosay nothing of the aroma of wines that are bad!--it can only beretorted that MR. PUNCH'S duty has ever been to mirror the manners ofthe changing time, and in his early days the wine flowed more freelythan it does to-day. For our personal taste we could have wished less ofthis humour of the bottle, but throughout this library an effort hasbeen made to maintain in some degree a historical perspective, so that,in addition to the prime purpose of entertainment, each of these booksin MR. PUNCH'S LIBRARY might be a faithful picture of the manners of theVictorian period in which most of his life has been passed. If to-daythese manners seem to us just a trifle coarser than we esteem the socialhabits of our own day, surely that is a comforting reflection and onenot lightly to be lost![Illustration]       *       *       *       *       *MR. PUNCH'S AFTER-DINNER STORIES[Illustration]_Mrs. Jones._ And pray, Mr. Jones, what is the matter now?_Jones._ I was only wondering, my dear, where you might have bought thisfish._Mrs. Jones._ At the fishmonger's. Where do you suppose I bought it?_Jones._ Well, I thought that, _perhaps_, there might have been aremnant sale at the Royal Aquarium!       *       *       *       *       *EXCUSE FOR DRINKING BEFORE DINNER.--To whet the appetite.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Voice from above._ "What are you doing down there,Parkins?"_Parkins._ "I'm jush--puttin' away the port, shir!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Commissionaire._ "Would you like a four-wheeler or a'ansom sir?" _Convivial Party_ (_indistinctly_). "Ver' mushoblige--but--reely don't think I _could_ take 'ny more!"]       *       *       *       *       *RICE AND PRUNES  Rice and prunes a household journal    Called the chief of household boons;  Hence my mother cooks diurnal    Rice and prunes.  Therefore on successive noons,    Sombre fruit and snowy kernel  Woo reluctant forks and spoons.  As the ear, when leaves are vernal,    Wearies of the blackbird's tunes,  So we weary of eternal    Rice and prunes.       *       *       *       *       *NEVER SPEAK IN A HURRYTHE HOSPITABLE JONES. Yes, we're in the same old place, where you dinedwith us last year. By the bye, old man, I wish you and your wife wouldcome and take pot-luck with us again on the----_The Impulsive Brown (in the eagerness of his determination never againto take pot-luck with the Joneses)._ My _dear_ fellow! _So_ sorry! Butwe're engaged on the--a--on the--er--on th-th-that evening!_Poor Jones (pathetically)._ Well, old man, you _might_ have given metime just to _name the day_.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "WHO PAYS THE PIPER CALLS THE TUNE"_Johnnie (to waiter)._ "Aw--you're the boss--head waiter, eh?"_Waiter._ "Yessir."_Johnnie._ "Ah, well, just--ah--send up to your _orchestra chaps_, andtell 'em I really can't eat my dinner to _that_ tune."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A LAST RESOURCE.--A happy and independent bachelor findshimself suddenly disappointed of his Christmas party in the country; hehas ordered nothing at home, has given his cook and man-servant leave toinvite their friends; his intimate companions are out of town, and, onarriving at his club, he is informed by the hall porter that "there isno dinner to-night, as the servants are having a party." Only oneresource, a hotel, or dinner at a restaurant, all alone!]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE VERY LATEST DISCOVERY.--_Amateur Astronomical Student(returning home, after attending scientific bachelor dinner, where "thereported discovery of a new Satellite of Saturn" has been warmlydiscussed)._ "Where am I? Letsh shee--(_considering_)--Earth's got onemoon. Mars's got five moo--Jup'tush nine--I shee two moons. Then--where_am_ I?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: EFFECT OF GOOD CHEER ON OPPOSITE TEMPERAMENTSAspect of Jones and Smith at two different stages of the same sumptuousrepast.]       *       *       *       *       *AT THE CELESTIAL RESTAURANT_Customer (indignantly)._ Hi! waiter, what do you call this soup?_Waiter (meekly)._ I not know, sir, but ze padrone tell me to describe'im cocks-tail!       *       *       *       *       *"THE COMING MAN."--A waiter.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SO VERY CONSCIENTIOUS!--_Master of the House._ "Why,Jenkins, what on earth is the matter with you? Aren't you ashamed ofyourself?"_Butler (with great deliberation)_, "Well, shir--if you pleashe,shir--itsh not quite _my_ fault. You told me to taste every bottle ofwine before dinner, in cashe one should be corked. I've only carried outin-shtrucshuns."]       *       *       *       *       *THE VERB TO DINEPRESENT TENSE  I dine.  Thou joinest me.  He tries to whip us up for a division.  We smoke our cigars.  Ye drink your port.  They are defeated in the lobby.IMPERFECT TENSE  I was dining.  Thou wast holding a reception.  He was attending it.  We were feeling puzzled.  Ye were reading the _Globe_ and _Pall Mall_.  They were not knowing what to make of it.FUTURE TENSE  I shall dine.  Thou wilt join my party.  He will squirm.  We shall promote the unity of the party.  Ye will applaud.  They will call a meeting at the "Reform."PERFECT TENSE  I have dined.  Thou hast made ambiguous remarks.  He has explained them away.  We have tried to make it all sweet again.  Ye have split a soda.  They have split the party.SUBJUNCTIVE PRESENT  I may dine.  Thou mayest object.  He may want to state his views.  We may insist on our dinners.  Ye may agree with them.  They may disagree with you.SUBJUNCTIVE IMPERFECT  I might dine.  Thou mightest emerge from Berkeley Square.  He might resign.  We might lead.  Ye might follow.  They might not.IMPERATIVE  Dine thou!  Let him speak out!  Let us know who is our leader!  Read ye the _Times_ and _Globe_!  Let them settle the question for us!INFINITIVE  Present: To split.  Past: To have been a party.       *       *       *       *       *AFTER-DINNER CONSIDERATION.--"Hippopotamuses" is a better test-word offitness for joining the ladies than "British Constitution."       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: DISCUSSING AN ABSENT FRIEND"Yes, Robinson's a clever feller, and he's a modest feller, and he's ahonest feller; but, betwixt you and I and the _post_, Mr. Jones," saidBrown, confidentially, picking his wisdom tooth with his little fingernail, "Robinson ain't got neither the looks, nor yet the language, noryet the manners of a _gentleman_!""Right you are, sir!" said Jones, shovelling the melted remains of hisice pudding into his mouth with a steel knife (which he afterwards wipedon the tablecloth). "_You've 'it 'im orf to a T!_"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _First Convivial._ "'Sh two o'clock! Wha'll er misshusshay?"_Second Convivial._ "Thash allri'! Shay you bin wi' me--(_hic_)!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "IN CONFIDENCE"_Dining-room, Apelles Club__Diner._ "Thomson, do the members ask for this wine?"_Head Waiter (sotto voce)._ "Not twice, sir!"]       *       *       *       *       *SPECIMENS OF MR. PUNCH'S SIGNATURES!(_Fac-similes taken during the course of the evening._)[Illustration: Punch]THIS IS BEFORE DINNER, 7.30. ATTESTED BY SEVERAL WITNESSES.[Illustration: Punch]THIS IS AFTER THE PUNCH A LA ROMAINE, ABOUT THE MIDDLE OF THE BANQUET.[Illustration: Punch]THIS IS WITH THE DESSERT.[Illustration: Punch]AFTER THE CLARET.[Illustration: Punch]AFTER THE CLARET _AND_ THE PORT.[Illustration: Punch]DURING THE CIGARS, WHISKEY AND WATER.[Illustration: Punch]12.30. BEFORE LEAVING TABLE.[Illustration: Punch]1.30. BEFORE GETTING INTO BED.The above have been submitted to an eminent expert, who says he couldalmost swear they are the same hand-writing, but must come and dine with_Mr. P._, in order absolutely to verify them.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A BAD ENDING.--"Well, William, what's become of Robert?""What, 'aven't you 'eard, sir?" "No! Not _defunct_, I hope!" "That'sjust exactly what he _'as_ done, sir, and walked off with heverything hecould lay his 'ands on!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A SALVE FOR THE CONSCIENCE_Vegetarian Professor._ "No, madam, not even fish. I cannot sanction thedestruction of life. These little creatures, for instance, were butyesterday swimming happily in the sea."_Mrs. O'Laughlan._ "Oh but, Professor, just think it's the first timethe poor little things have ever been really warm in their lives!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: FELICITOUS QUOTATION"Oh, Robert, the grouse has been kept too long! I wonder you can eatit!""My dear, 'we needs must love the highest when we see it.'"(_Guinevere._)]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Little Boreham_ (_relating his Alpine adventures_)."There I stood, the terrible abyss yawning at my feet----" _That BruteBrown._ "Was it yawning when you got there, or did it start after youarrived?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: At a dinner given by my Lord Broadacres to some of histenants, curacoa is handed in a liqueur-glass to old Turnitops, who,swallowing it with much relish, says--"Oi zay, young man! Oi'll tak zumo' that in a moog!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: PRICE FOR AGE_Mr. Green._ "You needn't be afraid of that glass of wine, uncle. It'sthirty-four port, you know."_Uncle._ "Thirty-four port!--Thirty-four fiddlesticks! It's no morethirty-four port than you are!"_Mr. Green._ "It _is_ I can assure you! Indeed, it's _reallythirty-six_; and _thirty-four if you return the bottles_!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: FLUNKEIANA_Master._ "Thompson, I believe that I have repeatedly expressed anobjection to being served with stale bread at dinner. How is it mywishes have not been attended to?"_Thompson._ "Well, sir, I reely don't know what is to be done! It won'tdo to waste it, and we _can't_ eat it downstairs!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: CONCLUSIVESCENE--_Hibernian Table d'hote__Guest._ "Waiter! I say--this is pork! I want mutton!"_Waiter_ (_rather bustled_). "Yes, sorr, it's mutton ye _want_--but it'spork ye'll _have_!"]       *       *       *       *       *RAMBLING RONDEAUX_At Table d'hote_  At _table d'hote_, I quite decline  To sit there and attempt to dine!    Of course you never dine, but "feed,"    And gobble up with fearsome greed  A hurried meal you can't define.  The room is close, and, I opine,  I should not like the food or wine;    While all the guests are dull indeed            At _table d'hote_!  The clatter and the heat combine  One's appetite to undermine.    When noisy waiters take no heed,    But change the plates at railway speed--  I feel compelled to "draw my line"            At _table d'hote_!       *       *       *       *       *SUFFICIENT EXCUSE_Jones_ (_to Brown_). I say, old fellow, I saw you last night, afterthat dinner. Your legs were uncommonly unsteady._Brown._ No, dear boy; legs were right enough. It was my trousers thatwere so "tight."       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: CRUEL!--_Lucullus Brown_ (_on hospitable purposeintent_). "Are you dining anywhere to-morrow night?" _Jones_ (_notliking to absolutely "give himself away"_). "Let mesee"--(_considers_)--"No; I'm not dining anywhere to-morrow." _LucullusBrown_ (_seeing through the artifice_). "Um! Poor chap! How hungry youwill be!" ["_Exeunt,--severally._"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: CANDID!_Simultaneously__Host (smacking his lips)._ "Now, what do you say to that glass ofshe----"_Guest._ "My dear fellow, where did you get this abominable Marsala?"]       *       *       *       *       *GUESTS TO BE AVOIDED"Hullo, old man! How is it you're dining at the club? Thought your wifetold me she had the Browns and Smiths to dinner this evening?""No--that was yesterday. This evening she has the odds and ends."       *       *       *       *       *SECTARIAN"Hullo, John! What a jolly dish! Potatoes, greens, carrots, beans! Who'sit for?""Mr. Binks, sir.""Is Mr. Binks a _vegetarian_?""Oh no, sir! I believe he's Church of England!"       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "TO PUT IT BROADLY"_Improvised Butler_ (_to distinguished guest_). "Will ye take anny moredrink, sor?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _First Customer._ "Waiter, a fried sole."_Second Customer._ "Bring me a fried sole, too, waiter--and mind it isfresh."_Waiter._ "Two fried soles--one fresh!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: AFTER MANY YEARS!--_Country Parson_ (_to distinguishedPeer, who has been making_ THE _speech of the evening_). "How d'ye do,my lord? I see you don't quite remember me." _Distinguished Peer._"Well--er--not altogether." _C. P._ "We were members of the same club atOxford." _D. P._ (_with awakening interest_). "Oh--ah! Let me see--whichclub was that?" _C. P._ "The--er--_Toilet Club_, you know!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE LEFT UNSAID_She._ "We expected you to dinner last night, Herr Professor. We waitedhalf an hour for you. I hope it was not _illness_ that prevented youfrom coming?"_He._ "Ach, no! I vas not hongry!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A DILEMMA_Nervous Gentleman_ (_to two sisters_). "I've got to take one of you into dinner. A--a--let me see--a--which is the elder?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE LEFT UNSAID_Jones_ (_to hostess, famous for her dinners_). "Oh, by the way, Mrs.Hodgkinson, if you should happen to want a really good cook, I know ofone who would suit you to a T!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE RULING PASSION STRONG AT DINNER_Laconic Waiter_ (_thoroughly familiar with sporting Major's taste inchampagne_). "Seventy-four, sir?"_Sporting Major_ (_down on his luck, after a bad week at Newmarket_)."Seven-to-four, sir! Dash it! wouldn't take ten to one about anything!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: CAUSE AND_Host_ (_to coachman, who is turned on as butler on grand occasions_)."I want you to see that all my guests enjoy themselves, Coggledab. Don'tlet them have to ask for anything. Be particularly attentive to my dearaunt, Mrs. Dumbledock!"]       * * * * *[Illustration: EFFECT_Coggledab_ (_in a stage-whisper, during a lull in the conversation, toMrs. Dumbledock, who has recently joined the Blue Ribbon Army._)"'Ollands, whiskey, or cog-nack, mum? You can't be enjy-in' of yourself._You're not drinkin'!_"[_Mrs. Dumbledock alters her will the next day_]       *       *       *       *       *A LITTLE DINNER OF THE FUTURE_A Forecast by Mr. Punch's Own Clairvoyant_    According to the _Daily Chronicle_, "an American professor is    looking forward to the time when cooking and dining shall become    lost arts, and we shall take our sustenance in the form of tablets    of concentrated things." Our esteemed contemporary appears to think    that such a system would necessarily do away with all conviviality    and social intercourse; but, unless MR. PUNCH'S clairvoyant is    liable to error (which is absurd), we need not take quite so gloomy    a view of the future. People will still entertain, only the dinner    of the next century will be a more economical and less tedious    function, and, instead of having to go through a trying interview    with her cook, the coming hostess will merely look in at the nearest    food chemist's, when some such conversation as the following will    settle the whole business._Hostess._ We've some people coming in to take a few tablets with usthis evening; what do you think I'd better have?_The Food Chemist._ You will require _soup_, of course, madam. I couldsend you one of these patent soup-sprinklers, exceedingly simple towork, and quite the fashion in the highest circles: the butler sprayseach guest before showing them upstairs. We supply the machine, chargedwith the very best soup, at ninepence a night._Hostess._ No, I don't want anything _fussy_, it's quite an informallittle gathering. An ounce of those mock-turtle jujubes at fourpence Ihad last time will do very well._The F. C._ Very good, madam. Then, with regard to fish? I can stronglyrecommend these bi-carbonate of cod and oyster sauce lozenges, or I havesome sulphate of salmon and cucumber pastilles, that I think you wouldlike, ninepence the quarter-of-a-pound._Hostess._ I'm afraid I mustn't be extravagant. I'll take a small bottleof condensed smelt tabloids (the _sixpenny_ size), and what are leftwill come in nicely for the children's dinner next day._The F. C._ Precisely so, madam. And as to _entrees_--will you havecockscomb cachous or sweetbread pilules?_Hostess._ It makes such a _long_ dinner. I don't want a lot of things._The F. C._ In _that_ case, madam, I think I have the very article--amost elegant electro-chemical preparation, combining _entree_, joint,and bird, with just a trace of vegetable matter, put up in smallcapsules, at one and elevenpence halfpenny the box of one dozen._Hostess._ That would be cheaper than having each course in separatetablets, _wouldn't_ it? I think I'll try a box. What wonderfulimprovements they bring out nowadays, to be sure!_The F. C._ They do indeed, madam. I am told that the Concentrated FoodStores will shortly be able to place on the market a series of graduatedwafers, each containing a complete dinner, from a City banquet to acutlet, at prices to correspond with the number of courses required._Hostess._ Delightful! And then the most expensive dinners will be allover in a minute, instead of dragging on to ten minutes or a quarter ofan hour, as I've known them to do sometimes! I've often thought what apity it is that we waste so much precious time as we do in merelysupplying our bodily wants._The F. C._ We are improving, madam, slowly improving. And what aboutsweets, cheese, and savouries?_Hostess._ I might have one of those two-inch blocks of condensedapple-tart, and a box of cheese pills--_no_ savouries. You see, it'sonly a _family_ party!_The F. C._ Exactly so, madam. And shall you be needing anything in theway of stimulants?_Hostess._ Let me see--you may send me in a couple of ounces ofacidulated champagne drops--the _Australian_ quality, _not_ the French,they're twopence an ounce dearer, and so few people notice thedifference nowadays, do they?_The F. C._ (_to himself_). Not until the next morning! (_Aloud._) Andliqueurs? Any brandy-balls with the coffee creams? We have some veryfine essence-of-dessert jellies----. _Hostess_ Nothing more, thank you.(_To herself as she departs._) I'm sure I've spent quite enough as it ison John's stingy old relations, who never ask us to have so much as alunch-lozenge or a tea-tabloid with them!       *       *       *       *       *_Lady of uncertain age_ (_discussing dinner party_). No, I cannot say itwas very complimentary; they gave me to an archaeologist to take down.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Old Jones._ "Yes, my boy, _there's_ wine for you, eh? Ibought ten pounds worth of it the other day."_Brown._ "What a _lot_ you must have got!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A BIG ORDER_Stout Party_ (_to waitress_), "Put me on a pancake, please!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: AT A LITERARY AND ARTISTIC BANQUET.--_Waiter_ (_tocolleague_). "Well, they may 'ave the intellec', Fred, but we certainly'as the good looks!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: Why not a phonographic after-dinner speech machine?Celebrities could be represented at any number of banquets.["An experiment in dinner speeches by telephone is to be tried atMassachusetts Institute."]]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE EXPRESSED OTHERWISE_Would-be Considerate Hostess (to son of the house)._ "How inattentiveyou are, John! You really must look after Mr. Brown. _He's helpinghimself to everything!_"[_Discomfiture of Brown, who, if somewhat shy, is conscious of a veryhealthy appetite._]]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD(N'T) RATHER HAVE LEFT UNSAID.--(_In Mrs.Talbot de Vere Skynflynte's drawing-room, after one of her granddinner-parties where nobody gets enough to eat._) _General Guzzleton._"What's that? Tea? No, thanks. I never take tea unless I've dined!"]       *       *       *       *       *PROVERBS FOR BALL AND DINNER GIVERSIces and tea and coffee and small cakes are as good as a feast.You may bring an amateur tenor up to a piano, but you cannot make himsing.A lord in the room is worth two dukes in the bush.In provincial society the lord-lieutenant is king.Flirtation is the mother of invention.All good dances lead to the conservatory.Take care of the rounds, and the squares will look after themselves.It is a wise waltzer who knows her own step.A dinner in time saves nine.When the confectioner comes in by the door the cook flies out by thewindow.What is port to your wine merchant is death to your guests.Keep your champagne dry.Call a stable-boy by any other name, and he will resemble the roseunder similar circumstances.You can't make a head butler out of a local greengrocer.When the soup is cold, the wit flies out.If you have enough cheap and nasty dishes, some of them must be eaten.The _menu_ makes the dinner.Ask _Mr. Punch_ to a really good and well thought-out meal, and you willhave an exceptionally lucky man for your guest.       *       *       *       *       *THE SIGH OF THE SEASON  Good-bye dinner, good-bye lunch,  Good-bye turtle, good-bye punch,  Good-bye jambon soaked in cham.,  Good-bye venison, cutlets lamb,  Good-bye salmon, smelts, and sole,  Good-bye Heidsieck's monopole,  Good-bye hock, sauterne, and sherry,  Good-bye all that makes me merry,  Good-bye liqueurs, _petit verre_,  Good-bye sauce _au Vin Madere_,  Good-bye all these joys of life,  Good-bye fork, and good-bye knife,  Good-bye all I take when out,  Good-bye _then_ this twinge of gout!       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Our Gallant Colonel._ "Your daughters, my dear Mrs.Tympanum, are looking delightful to-night--simply delightful!"_Mrs. Tympanum (rather hard of hearing, and very intent on a roti ofducklings)._ "Yes, aren't they! I've had them stuffed with sage andonions!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: CRUEL!--_Smith (usually a shy, reserved, and silent man)tells a rather long, but otherwise entertaining, story, about an orange,which meets with great success. Brown (when the laughter and applausehave subsided)._ "Bravo, Smith! Capital, old man! But, I say, you toldit better one night at Jones's, a few months ago!" _Jones._ "No, no!Where he told it best was that morning we breakfasted with you, Brown,somewhere about the beginning of the year before last!" _Robinson._ "Ah,but don't you recollect the way he told it after that supper I gave youfellows at Evans' in 'fifty-one'? How we _did_ laugh, to be sure!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: WHOSE FAULT?--_Wife (reproachfully)._ "O, Charles!" (_Shehad returned to the dining-room, wondering why he had not come upstairsto tea.) Charles (who had evidently taken a little too much wine)._ "V'ywell, my dear! 'Sh not my fault! 'Sh your fault! Cooksh fault! 'Bisquesoup was salt! Sh'preme d'la V'laille was smoked! And orange frittersh'tough as leather! What did Capt'n du Cane shay? Bad cookery cause ofall sorts o' crimes. 'Shamed of yourshelf!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration:"For when our veins are filledWith wine and feeding, we have suppler soulsThan in our priest-like fasts."--SHAKSPEARE: _Coriolanus_.AFTER-DINNER CRITICISM.--_Guest (who has had a pleasant evening, willjust have a look at his host's pictures before he goes)._"Yesh--(_hic_)--'like tha' pictsh're! Fi' lanshc'pe! 'Like the treesh!'Branshes wave 'bout s' nash'rally!!!"]       *       *       *       *       *DINNER PLATITUDESTwice of soup is vulgar, but three times of soup implies that you mustbe more than double-plated with vulgarity. Such a thing was never known,not even at the Trinity Board, and turtle is not the slightest excusefor your pushing things to such a vulgar length. An alderman wouldreally blush for you.A soft answer turneth away wrath, and an invitation to take a glass ofwine will frequently restore warmth between two friends where onlycoldness existed before.No matter how plain your cook may be, so long as your dinner iswell-dressed.A few compliments go a great way. A little savoury _pate_ is quiteenough. Try too many, and you'll find they'll prove heavy.When the ladies retire from the dinner-table, it is not usual for you(supposing you to be a gentleman) to retire with them. In this instance,the same law extends to the mistress as to the servants:--"No FollowersAllowed."A gratuity well bestowed frequently has a happy effect. The servant thatis fee'd well takes care that his master does the same.In the hands of an inferior _artiste_, whether an omelette turns outgood or bad, is quite a matter of toss up. It is the same with apancake.Keep ill-natured people from your table, as you would sour fruit. Theyare sure to disagree with every one. Avoid crab-apples, lest the appleof discord should turn up amongst them.       *       *       *       *       *ODE TO A DINNER-GONG  "The tocsin of the soul--the dinner-bell."    So said, admiringly, the late Lord Byron,  But he had never heard _your_ noisy knell,    O blatant bellowing thing of brass or iron,  Or surely he had metrically cursed    Your nerve-distracting Corybantic clangour.  Would his fine indignation could have versed    My utter hate, my agonising anger.  Alas! is gusto then so great a sin,    Is feeding man so terrible a sinner  That such a worse than _Duncan_-raising din    Must summon him to--dinner?       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: DOWN A PEG.--_Mr. Gifted Hopkins (minor poet, essayist,critic, golfer, fin-de-siecle idol, &c.)._ "Oh, Mrs. Smart--a--I've beenthinking, for the last twenty minutes, of something to say to you!"_Mrs. Smart (cheerfully)._ "Please go on thinking, Mr. Hopkins,--andI'll go on talking to Professor Brayne in the meantime."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: PAST AND PRESENT.--_Serious and much-married man._ "Mydear friend, I _was_ astonished to hear of _your_ dining at MadameTroisetoiles!--a 'woman with a past' you know!"_The Friend_ (_bachelor "unattached"_). "Well, you see, old man, she gota first-rate _chef_, so it isn't her 'past,' but her 're-past' that _I_care about."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A CONNOISSEUR.--_Sir Pompey Bedell._ "This bottle ofRomanee-conti seems rather cloudy, Brown! It _ought_ to be all right. Iknow it stands me in _twelve guineas a dozen_!"_The New Butler._ "There certainly _his_ some sediment, Sir Pompey; butit's of no consequence whatever! I tried a bottle of it _myself_ theother day, and found it first-rate!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A PIOUS FRAUD!"Hullo, Monty, what have you got in your button-hole? You don't mean tosay you've joined the blue ribbon army?""Yes; for this night only. Going to dine with Jakes. Don't want to hurtpoor old Jakes' feelings--don't want to be poisoned by his beastly wine.See?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: IN THE DAYS OF THE CRINOLINE--DINING UNDER DIFFICULTIES]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: REPLETION.--_Robert._ "Pudding or cheese, sir?"_Abstracted Editor._ "Owing to pressure of other matter, 'regret we areunable to find room for it!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Brown_ (_who has been dining at the club with Jones_)."Just come in a minute, old fellow, and have a night-cap."_Jones._ "I'm afraid it's getting a little late. Let's see how's theenemy."_Brown._ "Oh! that's all right. _She's_ in bed."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: INNOCENTS IN THE CITY_Mrs. Fitznoodle_ (_evidently not well versed in the delicacies of aGuildhall feast_). "Freddy, dear, can you tell me what _is_ thedifference between 'calipash' and 'calipee'?"_Colonel Fitznoodle_ (_hesitating, and looking round for ananswer_). "Certainly, my dear. Exactly the difference there is between'Gog' and 'Magog'!"]       *       *       *       *       *DINNERS AND DINERS(_With apologies to the P-ll M-ll G-z-tte_)It had been my good fortune to give to Mademoiselle Faustine, a charminglittle actress, a tip for the Welter Plate last spring. What morenatural than that I should ask her to give me a dinner as some slightreturn? She readily accepted, and asked me to name the day. Glancing atthe sixth volume of my engagement book, I found my first vacant date wasJune 18, '97. This was fortunate, as it is hardly possible--except atVoisin's--to get a decent dinner unless you order it a year in advance."Where shall we dine?" asked Faustine."There is only one place where people _do_ dine," I answered, a littlereproachfully. "The Bon Marche. I will order the dinner."So the place and the date were fixed.       * * * * *As Faustine was a quarter of an hour late--I had not seen her since ourarrangement--I waited in the alabaster portico of the Bon Marche,chatting amiably to the courteous commissionaire, an old comrade of minein the Wimbledon days. Jules, the courteous _chef_, was _au desespoir_.Why had I not given him more notice? Madame was fifteen minutes late. Ifhe had only known! In a year and fifteen minutes it is possible to cooka dinner. In a year--no. I tried to calm the worthy fellow--an old allyof mine in the Crimean war. In vain; he complained the sardines werespoiling. So I went into the dining-room, nodding courteously to eightprinces of the blood, neither of whom appeared, for the moment, torecognise me.As I seated myself, the entire staff, headed by a brass band, brought memy _sardines a l'huile_. These are a _specialite_ of the house, and arenever--should never be, at least--eaten with the tin. The _potage a lapotasse_ was quite excellent. I congratulated the courteous _chef_,pointing out to him the desirability of mixing, sometimes, a littleanti-pyrine into the potassium--both drugs far too rarely used in moderncookery. Then came the question of wine. This I solved for the momentby ordering two Jeroboams of Stereoscopic Company et Fils; a _cuvee_ of'80, absolutely _reservee_ for my own use. As I had engaged the entirestaff of waiters, a crown prince, who was entertaining one of ourleading bicyclists, rose to leave, with his guest. I smiled and noddedto them as they passed, which appeared to hasten their departure.The _moulin a vent_ was delicious, but the _dindon decousu_ I could notpass. No self-respecting _gourmet_ will pass everything at a dinner.Gontran, the kindly _maitre d'hotel_, was almost in tears, but Iconsoled him by observing that the ostriches were cooked to a turn, andthe _bombe glacee a l'anarchiste_ faultless.But my hostess? Where was she? Where was Mademoiselle Faustine? I hadquite forgotten her! I beckoned to Hagenbock, the press representativeof the restaurant, who informed me she had been dead eight months! I,who read nothing but menus, had omitted to notice this in the papers. Iwas greatly pained. The shock unnerved me--I could eat no more. Besides,who was now to pay the bill?I reproduce the bill.Couverts, L5. Diners, L36 8_s._ Pain, 2_s._ Champagne, L47. Liqueurs,15_s._ Addition, 3_s._In all, L89 8_s._--(This is one of the few restaurants where a charge ismade for the addition.)"Make out the bill," said I, "in francs, and send it to the executors ofMademoiselle Faustine."II.Monsieur Victor de Train-de-Luxe is in many respects a delightfulperson. In other ways he is not. For instance, because he was,accidentally, the cause of my backing a winner at Ascot (simply by meansof ordinary stable information), he had the bad taste to suggest that Ishould stand him a dinner.I said, "Certainly, my dear Comte" (Comte being the courtesy title Iinvariably give to foreigners from whom I have the hope of borrowingmoney)."Where shall it be?""There is only one place where one _can_ dine," I said."Of course--the Bon Marche," he replied."No," I answered. "No, _mon ami_. If you wish to eat a reallycharacteristic English dinner, come to the Vegetarian Restaurant inEdgware Road. Come along. Come, _now_!""But it's only six o'clock. I am not hungry.""All the better," I replied. And I also pointed out to him that the bestway to see London is outside an omnibus. So we started.       * * * * *Arrived at the restaurant, I was enthusiastically received by thecourteous cashier, who presented me with a previous bill, which, Inoticed, had not been receipted. I said I thought it rather rude topresent a gentleman with a bill which they hadn't taken the trouble toreceipt.We sat down."I'm glad," I said to Victor, "that I didn't know this dinner was comingoff to-day. If I had had notice, I might have ordered it beforehand; anda dinner, to be perfection, should be eaten, if possible, on the day itis cooked. At least, that's what I always think. I may be wrong."Monsieur de Train-de-Luxe smiled, said I was a _farceur_, and I orderedour dinner.First, some turnip turtle soup, then, ortolans of spinach and mashedpotatoes, followed by a canvas-backed duck made of Indian corn, andlast, not least, plum-pudding. As all will agree, this makes a verydelicious and seasonable repast. Long dinners have quite gone out offashion. And this was washed down with a sparkling bottle of orangechampagne, '97.My friend Victor, who is rather a _gourmet_, was so struck with thefirst mouthful of soup, that he said it was quite enough, observing, hehad never tasted anything like it.Pleased with this praise, I asked his opinion of the ortolans. He saidthat their aroma dispensed with the necessity for their consumption. Hewas evidently surprised.When the bill was presented by the courteous "chucker-out," we foundthat most unluckily neither of us had any money.I append the bill.Dinners (for two), 1_s._ 9_d._ Champagne, 3_d._ Total, 2_s._To this I ought really to add:--Cab (for three) to Marylebone Police Court, 1_s_. 6_d_. (The constablerefused to walk without us.)Loss to reputation by report of proceedings, 8_d_.       *       *       *       *       *THE BUSINESS OF PLEASURE_Professor Guzzleton_ (_to Fair Chatterbox_). Are you aware that ourhost has a French cook?_Fair Chatterbox._ So I hear!_Professor Guzzleton._ And that that French cook is the best in London?_Fair Chatterbox._ So I believe!_Professor Guzzleton._ Then don't you think we had better defer allfurther conversation till we meet again in the drawing-room?       *       *       *       *       *"My uncle, the admiral," said Mrs. Ramsbotham, "is very old fashioned,and always goes to sleep every day after dinner with his banana on hishead."       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SYMPATHETIC_Toast-master_ (_to chairman of public dinner_). "Would you like topropose your toast now, my lord, or should we let 'em enjoy themselves abit longer?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: INFELICITOUS MISQUOTATIONS.--_Hostess._ "You've eatenhardly anything, Mr. Simpkins!"_Mr. S._ "My dear lady, I've dined '_wisely, but not too well_!'"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: TRIUMPHS OF THE FUNNY MAN_Hired Waiter_ (_handing the liqueurs_). "_Please_, sir, _don't_ make melaugh--I shall spill 'em all!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: OVERHEARD AT A CITY RESTAURANT"I said Welsh _radish_, not _horse rabbit_!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: IRRESISTIBLE_Our Robert_ (_on duty in the provinces, offering dish to neglectedspinster_). "Little duck!"[_In such a tone of voice, that, at the risk of the sage and----sheaccepts!_]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Host._ "I say, my boy, shall we join ladies indrawing-room?"_Guest._ "I sh'inksho."_Host._ "Can you say, 'The scenery's truly rural 'bout here?'"_Guest._ "Sc-scenery tooralooral."_Host._ "All right, come along!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: HE KNEW THE CUISINE.--_Hungry Diner_ (_scanning themenu_). "Look here, waiter, I'm starving. I think I'll have a little ofeverything!"_Waiter._ "Yessir. (_Bawls off._) 'Ash one!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SONGS AND THEIR SINGERS]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SONGS AND THEIR SINGERS]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SONGS AND THEIR SINGERS]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SONGS AND THEIR SINGERS]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SONGS AND THEIR SINGERS]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SONGS AND THEIR SINGERS]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SONGS AND THEIR SINGERS]       *       *       *       *       *AFTER-DINNER SPEECHES  "When the wine is in, the wit is out;"    Only to dolts the adage reaches.  No wise man could for a moment doubt    The value of after-dinner speeches.  _Punch_ can remember the time when Peel,    Whose wisdom still the country teaches,  After steak and port, his nine o'clock meal,    Made the best of after-dinner speeches.  When the Ministers come to the Mansion House,    (The King of London their presence beseeches,)  No guest who has any touch of _nous_    Will be weary of after-dinner speeches.  When the Royal Academy blooms in May,    With its pretty girls and their cheeks like peaches  Who won't, on the opening Saturday,    Listen to after-dinner speeches?  When there's ought that's generous to be done,    A greeting to pay that no soul impeaches,  A dinner's the best thing under the sun,    And its gold coin the after-dinner speeches.  And as to the House, which often suffers    From talk that to dreariest platitude reaches,  It does not often allow its duffers    To make long after-dinner speeches.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SCENE--CHOP-HOUSE_Enter Street Boy, and, with suppressed ecstasy._ "Oh, please, there'syour cat and kittens having such a game with the things in the winder!"]       *       *       *       *       *AT THE CRIC-CRAC RESTAURANT_Customer_ (_looking at bill_). Here, waiter, there's surely somemistake in this total._Waiter_ (_politely_). Zehn thousand pardons, sir! Mit my usualcarelessness I have added in ze date and vorgot to charge you for zebutter.       *       *       *       *       *AN OVERSIGHT!_Swell._ Waiter! This--ah--chop's vewy dwy!_Waiter._ 'Ndeed, sir? Perhaps if you were to order something to drinkwith it, sir----       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A REBUKE_Host._ "Fish is very expensive, just now, I can tell you. This salmoncost me two and sixpence a pound!"_Guest_ (_no business of his_). "Ah, it's very good, I think I'll takeanother eighteen penn'orth!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: CAUTION_The Major._ "Don't you like liqueurs, Mrs. Jinks?"_Mrs. Jinks._ "Yes; but they make one so _unreserved_!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A BORN ORATOR (IN THE EAST)_Farmer_ (_proposing landlord's health_). "An' if a' squiears 'ud _dew_as our squiear _dew_, there wudna be so many on 'em as _dew_ as they_dew dew_!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: NO EXCUSE FOR NOT BELIEVING.--"Then you don't believe inphrenology?" "No, rather not. I once gave one of those fellows asovereign to read my head, and, after feeling it a long time, all hesaid was, that I had no idea of the value of money."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE PUT DIFFERENTLY.--_Mr.Bumblepup._ "I must apologise for coming in ordinary evening dress."_Hostess._ "Well, you really have the advantage of us. We're all lookingmore foolish than usual, and you're not."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Mr. Boreham_ (_in the thick of a long and pointlessstory_). "Well, as I was saying, I happened to be in the City the otherday, and, as I was walking down Cheapside, whom should I meet but my oldfriend, Stodgeley, whom I haven't seen for fifteen years. Well, what doyou think he did? He stopped dead when he saw me, slapped me on theshoulder, and said, 'Surely this must be my dear old friend, Boreham?'"_She_ (_with difficulty keeping awake_). "Yes?--_and was it_?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Hostess_ (_to friend who has been brought in to takepot-luck_). "I'm afraid, Mr. Simpson, we've only got a very poor dinnerto offer you."_Mr. Simpson._ "My dear Mrs. Jones, I beg you not to apologise! I assureyou I think it quite desirable to _underfeed_ occasionally!"]       *       *       *       *       *THE DINNER CHAIRMAN'S VADE MECUM(_Compiled for the use of Orators during the Month of May Mouthings_)_Question._ You are accustomed to take the chair at a public dinner?_Answer._ Yes. Or, to speak by the card, a dinner for the rest of thecompany._Q._ Why, do you not partake of the good cheer before you with the restof your convives?_A._ Certainly not. I have to speak later on--a consideration whichentirely destroys my appetite._Q._ Is there anything new to be said in the loyal toasts?_A._ No; and therefore it is better to return to the simplest form,which is sure to be received with heartfelt enthusiasm._Q._ What can be said about the united service?_A._ That it is absolutely delightful to expend millions in thefurtherance of their interests._Q._ And can anything interesting be put in about the Houses ofParliament?_A._ Not much. Sneers at the Lords are no longer popular, and the LowerHouse is too respectable to be anything but a dull subject._Q._ What about the toast of the evening?_A._ That must be left to the secretary, who will furnish the chairmanwith the necessary facts, which may be mixed with original remarks,two-thirds humorous to one-third pathetic._Q._ How are the visitors to be treated?_A._ With fulsome eulogy or comic depreciation inspired by the pages ofthat excellent manual, _Who's Who_. Particular attention can be paid tothe entries under "Recreations" in that admirable work, for appropriatechaff._Q._ And in what terms does a chairman respond to the toast of his ownhealth?_A._ In a few muttered words addressed to an audience composed of agentleman fast asleep, the toast-master, and the waiters.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SOCIAL AGONIES.--"I say, old chap, it's short notice, but_do_ come and dine this next Thursday!" "Can't, dear old man. I'mengaged three deep for the night!" "Oh, sorry! I've got the Duke andDuchess of Runnymede, and Lord Savory!" "Oh,"--(_seeing it in quite adifferent light_)--"_next_ Thursday, did you say? I thought you saidThursday _week_. Oh, yes, I shall be delighted!"[_Their Graces and Lord S. never turned up, after all!_]]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: REASSURING"Lor' bless yer, sir, that's all right, sir! _That_ ain't a fly,sir!--_that's_ a bit of dirt!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: BREAKING THE ICE_Sprightly Lady._ "Mr. Dormers, would you oblige me with----"_Bashful Curate_ (_who had scarcely spoken to his fair neighbour_). "O,certainly. What shall I have the pleasure to offer?----"_Lady._ "----a remark!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE CONNOISSEUR.--_Host_ (_smacking his lips_). "There,my boy, what do you think of that? I thought I'd give you a treat.That's '34 port, sir!" _Guest._ "Ah, and a very nice, sound wine, Ishould say! I believe it's quite as good as some I gave 37s. for theother day."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A GENTLE SNUB.--"Here, waiter--quick! Something toeat--and look sharp!" "Yessir. What'll you 'ave, sir?" "Oh--anything--Idon't care. Chop or steak--whatever you like." "You must excuse me, sir;but I don't feel called upon to decide!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE WAY WE LIVE NOWTIME--3 P.M. SCENE--_Club_._First Gilded Youth._ "Had any breakfast, old chappie?"_Second Gilded Youth._ "Yes. Had an egg beaten up at twelve."_First Gilded Youth_ (_in admiration_). "Doose you did! What aconstitution you must have!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE FIRST ASPARAGUS OF THE SEASON_Farmer_ (_at market dinner_). "Wull, gen'elmen, I dunno wot be thec'rect way o' servin' these 'ere, but I gen'elly eats just the ends of'em myself!"[_Helps himself to the tops!_]]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE GENIAL SEASON_Hungry-looking Acquaintance_ (_with eye to invitation_). "So glad tosee you enjoying yourself!"_Fat Chap_ (_evidently doing well_). "Wrong again, old man. I'm enjoyingmy dinner!"]       *       *       *       *       *A WAITER'S WARNING"ENTOMOLOGY IN PARLIAMENT STREET.--Mr. Frank W. DUFREY, 55, ParliamentStreet, writes to the _Field_:--'It will interest your entomologicalreaders to hear that a fine specimen of the death's-head hawk moth(_Acherontia atropos_) was taken in Parliament Street on Monday evening.It flew into the dining-room at the Red Lion Tavern, and was captured byone of the waiters, who was alarmed at its size and the peculiar noiseit made. Apart from its being rather rubbed, it is a very good specimenof the largest of our lepidoptera, and is now in my possession.'"  "William, where's John?   What, is he gone?"   "Not gone away, sir.   Sorry to say, sir;   John ill a-bed, sir,   Bad in 'is 'ed, sir.   'Ad a great fright, sir.   Turned 'is 'air wite, sir.   Last Monday night, sir."    "Struck down with fear!  How? Let me hear."    "'Orrible thing, sir,  Came on the wing sir;  Window in through, sir,  Suddently flew, sir,  Into this room, sir,  A shape from the tomb, sir.  'Twasn't a bat, sir;  No, sir, not that, sir:  Moth, sir, we thought, sir.  But wen it was caught, sir,  Huttered a shriek, sir,  A scream, sir, a squeak, sir!  Hinsect, you know, sir,  Couldn't do so, sir.  Wot should we find, sir,  On its back, sir, be'ind, sir,  Printed, exact, sir?--  A skull, sir,--a fact, sir!  John gasped for breath, sir;  Thought it was Death, sir--  Notice to quit, sir.  John was that frit, sir,  John 'ad a fit, sir--  Went a'most mad, sir.  John very bad, sir;  Better, bimeby, sir;  'Opes John won't die, sir.  Doctor 'e said, sir,  Moth, named death's 'ed, sir,  In natteral 'istory, sir;  Rare; but no mystery, sir:  Honly a prize, sir,  A catch in 'is heyes, sir,  As a medical gent, sir,  No call to repent, sir--  That's 'is belief, sir.  A sirloin of beef, sir,  Just up--very nice, sir.  Bring you a slice, sir?  Potatoes and greens, sir--  And any French beans, sir?"       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Mrs. Godolphin._ "Shall we meet at Dunchester Houseto-morrow?"_Mrs. Lascelles._ "No. _I_ was there on Monday. I heard there were a fewpeople going to-morrow."_Mrs. Godolphin._ "Oh, yes. She has only asked quite a few people. OnMonday, now, I hear there was quite a big rabble there!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE CONSCIOUSNESS OF IMPORTANCE.--_Mrs. Brown._ "We arehaving some friends to dine with us on the twenty-fourth, Mr. Green, andwant you to come and help to wait at table, as usual." _The FamilyGreengrocer._ "On the twenty-fourth, ma'am? I'm sorry to say I'm engagedon the twenty-fourth." _Mrs. Brown._ "Dear me! How unfortunate! We areso accustomed to you, and you know our ways." _Mr. Green._ "Yes, ma'am.Couldn't you write and put off your friends till the week _after_,ma'am?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE LEFT UNSAID"By the way, your friend O'Leary dined with me last night. What a dulldog he is!""Oh, that depends on what company he's in!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE LEFT UNSAID"You can't go home when it's raining like this. You'd better stay andhave dinner with us!""Oh, it's not quite so bad as _that_!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: FREAKS OF NATURE_Waiter._ "Now, then, look sharp! Here's that mutton chop a biling withrage at bein' kep' waitin', and a beefsteak gone away in a toweringpassion!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A NEW DISH_Sympathising Swell_ (_waiting for some chicken_). "You've got nosinecure there, Thomas!"_Perspiring Footman._ "Very sorry, sir--just 'elped the last of it away,sir!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: ALARMING SYMPTOMS AFTER EATING BOILED BEEF AND GOOSEBERRYPIE_Little Boy._ "Oh, lor, mar, I feel just exactly as if my jacket wasbuttoned."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: BROWN AND JONES OVER THEIR WINE_Jones._ "How would I take Cronstadt? With vigour and decision, nothingmore easy. My dear Brown, look here. This table is the Baltic, verywell. Now look--(_Jones places certain strawberries for the forts; thecity of Cronstadt on this occasion only being represented by a plate ofgooseberries at the back._) Here we are. The strawberries the forts:Cronstadt the gooseberries. Now a little vigour and decision! This spoonis the _Duke of Wellington_, three-decker, leading the van. We go inhere, firing both broadsides at once, to destroy the forts to larboardand starboard; while at the same time our guns in the bows andstern-sheets smash the other forts before and behind. Very good. We arethen in front of Cronstadt--the city of Cronstadt. We shell that, sir;shell it of course! Blow up the powder-magazines; capitulation ensues;the Russian fleet is in a blaze, and, my dear Brown, that is how _I_would take Cronstadt----"_Brown._ "----After dinner."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: HEAVY_Stranger_ (_just arrived at the City of Eastminster_). "What can I havefor dinner, waiter?"_Waiter._ "Anything you please, sir!"_Stranger._ "What are you celebrated for here?"_Waiter._ "Well, sir, there's the cathedral----!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: HORRIBLE SUSPICION_Old Gentleman._ "Oh, waiter, why is it that a dinner off the joint isfive shillings, but if you only have made dishes and soup, it's twoshillings and sixpence?"_Waiter._ "That, sir, is on account of the very high price of butcher'smeat just now, sir."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SELF-EXAMINATION_Party_ (_slightly influenced_). "Queshion ish! Am I fit to gointodrawingroom? Letsh shee!--I can shay gloriush conshyshusn!--Haveseen Brish inshychusion--all that shortothing--thatledo--here gosh!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: DURING THE CATTLE SHOW.--_Old Farmer Wuzzle_ (_readingthe bill of fare_). "Dinners har lar cart! What does that mean, Polly?"_Miss Wuzzle_ (_who has been to a fashionable boarding-school to befinished, who has been taught French and how "to spank the grandpianner" and who is never at a loss_). "Aller cart, father? Why, thatmeans a small, simple dinner. If you want something heavy andfirst-rate, you order what they call a dinner waggon!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "MARCH OF REFINEMENT," 1875.--_Brown_ (_behind the age,but hungry_). "Give me the bill of fare, waiter."_Head Waiter._ "Beg pardon, sir?"_Brown._ "The bill of fare."_Head Waiter._ "The what, sir? O!--ah!--Yes!"--(_tosubordinate_)--"Chawles, bring this--this--a--gen'leman--the _menoo_!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "MELTING!"_Stout Chairman_ (_who feels the fire close at his back ratheroppressive_). "Waiter, I asked you to bring me a screen."_Waiter._ "Master's very sorry, sir, but we ain't got no screen!"_Stout Chairman._ "Then, for goodness' sake, tell the cook to send upthe dripping-pan, and put it under me, quick!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "I say, waiter, this salmon cutlet isn't half so good asthe one I had here last week.""Can't see why, sir. It's off the same fish!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "PLEASE TO REMEMBER THE WAITER""All right, sir! My fault!"]       *       *       *       *       *DRINKING SCENE OF THE FUTURE(_In consequence of the Growing Demand for Lighter Liquors_)    SCENE--_The interior of a Dining-room. The ladies have just left,    and the gentlemen are discussing their beverages.__Smith._ I say, Brown, if it is not an impertinent question, where didyou get that toast-and-water?_Brown._ I thought you would be deceived! It was a cup, not the purearticle! My butler is a first-rate hand at it. I will give you therecipe if you like._Smith._ Do. It was excellent. What _is_ the secret?_Brown._ Something, I fancy, to do with watercress._Jones._ I say, Brown, that was really very nice sherbet. Turkish orPersian?_Brown._ Neither. Came from the Stores. Home-made._Jones._ Well, it certainly was capital. I could have sworn that it hadbeen manufactured east of the Levant._Brown._ More likely east of Temple Bar. And now shall we have awhitewash before we join the ladies?_Six Guests._ No, thanks! Really not!_Half-a-dozen more of the Company._ Really not! No, thanks!_Brown._ Nonsense! (_Produces a pint bottle of lemonade._) Nonsense, Irepeat! Look here, my boys. (_Locks door._) Not one of you fellows shallleave the room until you have finished _this_!    [_Draws cork of pint bottle, and distributes the lemonade amidst the    good-natured protestations of the revellers. Scene closes in upon    the temperance orgy._       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A PERSONAL GRIEVANCE"I say, won't they let _you_ go into long trousers?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: STUDIES IN ANIMAL LIFETHE GOORMONG. (_Epicuri de Grege Porcus. British Isles_)_Mr. Huggins._ "_What_ a 'eavenly dinner it was!"_Mr. Buggins._ "B'lieve yer! Mykes yer wish yer was born 'oller!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE NEW SCHOOL.--_Uncle_ (_who is rather proud of hiscellar_). "Now George, my boy, there's a glass of champagne foryou--don't get such stuff at school, eh? eh? eh?"_George._ "H'm--awfully sweet! Very good sort for ladies--but I'vearrived at a time of life, when I confess I like my wine _dry_!"(_Sensation._)]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: PLEASANT!--_Lord Reginald Sansdenier_ (_in answer toconfidential remark of his host_). "Twenty thousand pounds worth ofplate on the table, Sir Gorgius? I wonder you ain't afraid of beingrobbed!"_Sir Gorgius Midas._ "_Robbed_, my lord! Good 'evens! I'm sure yerlordship's too honnerable heven to _think_ of sich a thing!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Farmer._ "I say, John, what do you call a pineapple--afruit or a vegetable?"_Waiter._ "A pineapple hain't neither, gentlemen. A pineapple is alwaysa hextra!"]       *       *       *       *       *DINING AL FRESCO(_Extract from an Earl's Courtier's Notebook_)6 P.M.--Come down early, to get a table. Can't. All the tables booked aweek in advance. Very angry. Manager says he'll see what can be done forme--later on. Fairly satisfied. He had better!7 P.M.--In state of heat. Have a fair appetite. Ask for table. "Whattable?" "The one promised me--later on." "Very sorry, but they are allengaged." Awfully angry. Explain that I am a person of some importance.Can do the place a great deal of good if I do have a table, and _viceversa_. Manager desolated. See everybody else stuffing, drinking, andenjoying themselves. How they can have the heart! And _I_ table-less!But, no matter, a time will come. I'll write to "the leading journal"and denounce everything and everybody.7.15 P.M.--Explosively wrathful. At last! Ha! ha! Got a table. But atthe back somewhere. Strong smell of cooking. Distant echo of a band.Exceedingly annoyed. Have tasted _hors d'oeuvres_. Sardines decent.7.20 P.M.--_Bonne Femme_ soup good. Have ordered champagne cup. Stillannoyed.7.30 P.M.--Salmon mayonnaise distinctly excellent. Good idea to havecold dinner. Champagne cup well brewed. Don't notice the smell ofcooking. Can hear the band. Nice band.7.40 P.M.--_Pate de fois gras en aspic._ Capital Cold joint. First-rate.Salad artistically mixed. Second champagne cup as good as first. Afterall, place of table not so bad.[Illustration]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: A TRUE ARTIST.--_Mamma_ (_to Tommy, who has been allowedfor a few minutes to wait at table_). "Now, Tommy, kiss me, and go tobed."_Tommy_ (_to footman_). "Do _you_ ever kiss the missus, Charles?"_Footman._ "No, sir!"_Tommy._ "Then _I_ won't!"]       *       *       *       *       *THE MENU A LA MODE  Come, Damon, since again we've met    We'll feast right royally to-night,  The groaning table shall be set    With every seasonable delight!  The luscious bivalve ... I forgot,    The oyster is an arch-deceiver,  And makes its eater's certain lot    A bad attack of typhoid fever.  With soup, then, be it thick or clear,    The banquet fitly may commence--  Alas, on second thoughts, I fear    With soup as well we must dispense.  The doctors urge that, in effect,    Soup simply kills the thoughtless glutton.  It's full of germs. I recollect    They say the same of beef and mutton.  Yes, each variety of meat,    As you remark, is much the same,  And we're forbidden now to eat    Fish, oysters, poultry, joint or game.  But though a Nemesis each brings,    The punishment, the doctors tell, is  As nothing to the awful things    Awaiting all who toy with jellies.  Cheese--that is not condemned with these    Yet ample evidence we find  To make us, Damon, look on cheese    As simply poison to mankind;  While those who may desire to pass    Immediately o'er Charon's ferry,  Have but to take a daily glass    Of claret, hock, champagne or sherry.  And therefore, Damon, you and I,    Who fain would live a year at least,  Reluctantly must modify    The scope of our projected feast;  A charcoal biscuit we will share,    Water (distilled, of course,) we'll swallow,  Since this appears the only fare    On which destruction will not follow!       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SMALL SOCIAL AGONIES_Hostess._ "It's but a poor lunch I can give you! But my cook has gotinfluenza!"_Enfant terrible._ "Oh, mummy, you _always_ say that!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: QUITE A NOVELTY.--_Amiable Experimentalist._ "Makes adelicious side dish, doesn't it? But it is not the common mushroom; it'sa large fungus, called the agaricus procerus. It grows solitary in hedgerows, is called colubrinus, from the snake-like markings on its stem.The pileus is covered with scales, which are formed by the breaking-upof the mud-coloured epidermis, and----" [_General panic takes place_]       *       *       *       *       *THE DIRGE OF THE DINER_A Restore-Wrong Rhyme_  "_Attendance is charged in the bill!_"    Delighted we sit down to dine;    And order our food and our wine.    The waiter is passing polite,    We eat with a grand appetite  Of dishes compounded with skill.    The room is so cosy and light;    The glass and the silver are bright;    Our flag of defiance is furled,    We seem all at peace with the world,  And rest quite contented until----    Attendance is charged one and nine.    We pay its collector a fine;    And give to the waiter polite    A tip he regards as his right  And duty of ours to fulfil!    The carver, too, looks for a fee;    The man with our coat, so does he!    The porter expects something more,    Who calls us a cab at the door!----  "_Attendance is charged in the bill!_"       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE GOLDEN KEY.--_Mr. Montgomerie._ "Ah! my dear boys,you're right. The extent to which our English system of 'tipping' hasgrown is something monstrous! Why, I can assure you--that--at some ofthe big country houses I stop at, it costs me a ten-pound note _to getout of 'em_!"_Jones_ (_to his neighbour, sotto voce_). "Wonder how much it costs himto _get into_ 'em?"]       *       *       *       *       *THE ECONOMICS OF SMOKINGBY JOSEPH FUME.The man who smokes half his cigar, and puts the remainder by, knowsnothing about smoking.The man who carries no cigar-case has no right to levy contributions onthose who do.Never buy a cigar at a chemist's, they are sure to remind you of theirorigin. I once knew a chemist, who also sold wine and cigars, and I amsure he could only have had one workshop for his three businesses, andthat was his laboratory.Mistrust the tobacco that is given in half-payment of a bill. Suchdealers may be clever in drawing a bill, but it is rarely that theircigars are distinguished for being good "drawers."The man who smokes with wine is quite capable of taking sugar withoysters.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: ANNALS OF A RETIRED SUBURB.--The Montgomery Jonesescelebrated their wedding-day by giving a dinner on an unusuallymagnificent scale to some of their London friends. Unfortunately, anunexpected change in the weather during the afternoon has made the roadup the hill rather heavy, so that the London friends omit to turn up.]       *       *       *       *       *PROVERBS FOR TABLE  Set a thief to catch a thief:  Think of this when eating beef.  All that glitters is not gold:  Think of this when that beef's cold.  Harm is done by too much zeal:  Think of this when eating veal.  Life's a jest, and all things show it:  Think of this when drinking Moet.  Happiness flies Court for garret:  Think of this when drinking claret.  Gold may oft be bought too dear:  Think of this when drinking beer.  Many littles make a mickle:  Think of this when eating pickle.  Silent fools may pass for wise:  Think of this when eating rice.  Unto Rome conduct all roads:  Think of this when eating toads.  Flog first fault: _principiis obsta_,  Think of this when eating lobster.  While grass grows the horse may starve:  Think of this when asked to carve.  Shake the tree when fruit is ripe:  Think of this when eating tripe.  Fools build houses, wise men buy:  Think of this when eating pie.  Pause, ere leaping in the dark:  Think of this when eating lark.  Punctual pay gets willing loan:  Think of _this_ when drinking Beaune.  Wisdom asks fruits, but Folly flowers:  Think o' _this_ when eating cauliflowers.  Birds of a feather flock together:  Think of this when the idiot of a    cook has boiled the oysters in the sauce,    and made them as tough as leather.[Illustration]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE LEFT UNSAID_Hostess._ "What fun you seem to be having over there, Captain Smiley! Iwish you all sat at this end of the table!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Waiter_ (_who has "seen better days"--absently, as hepours out the champagne_). "Say when!"]       *       *       *       *       *SPRING-CLEANING.  "In Spring when woods are getting green,"  My wife begins the house to clean,  And I am driven from this scene,                              Of scrub-land.  The mops and pails left on the stairs  I come across, quite unawares,  And break my shins and utter--prayers,                              For tub-land.  In clouds of dust I choke and cough,  Such draughts! My hat I dare not doff,  I'd go (if I were not a toff)                              To pub-land.  But--mum--I won't kick up a shine  Nor of delight give any sign,  But, quietly, I'm off to dine                              In Club-land.       *       *       *       *       *A SOAKER'S PARADISE.--Dropmore.       *       *       *       *       *A MONSTER MEETING.--A giant and a dwarf.       *       *       *       *       *POETICAL LICENCE.--A music-hall's.       *       *       *       *       *TURF REFORM.--Mowing the lawn.       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Quiet Man_ (_as a particularly "steep" story ofadventure comes to a close_). "Er--will somebody pass the _salt_,please?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Adolphus_ (_grandly; he is giving his futurebrother-in-law a little dinner down the river_). "Waitar--youcan--ah--leave us!"_Old Waiter._ "Hem!--yessir--but--you'll pard'n me, sir--we've so manygents--'don't wish to impute nothink, sir--but master--'fact is,sir--(_evidently feels a delicacy about mentioning it_)--we're--you see,sir--'_sponsible for the plate, sir_!!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: GRAND BURNS' FESTIVAL--BROWN ENTERTAINS HIS FRIEND WI' AHAGGIS!]       *       *       *       *       *DISCLAIMER BY A DINER-OUT  Abolish party? Whose delight were greater    Than mine? I hail the chance with rapture hearty.  But oh! I _can't_ agree with the _Spectator_,    Who'd do away with--gods!--the dinner party!  No, let us compromise,--we'll all be winners,--    And firmly banish party from our dinners!       *       *       *       *       *SYMPATHY(SCENE--_In front of Mrs. R.'s house_)_Mrs. Ramsbotham_ (_paying Cabman_). You look all right to-day._Cabman._ Ah, mum! my looks don't pity me. I suffer from a tarpaulinliver._Mrs. R._ (_correcting_). A torpedo liver, you mean.[_Cabman accepts the correction, and an extra shilling_]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: HAPPY THOUGHT.--_Sir Pompey Bedell_ (_poking the fire inhis new smoking-room_). "This wretched chimney has got into a mostobjectionable way of smoking. A--I can't cure it." _Bedell Junior._"Just give it a couple of your cigars, governor!--it'll never smokeagain!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "CRAMMING"]       *       *       *       *       *"CRAMMING."_Affectionate Uncle._ "Glad to see you, Rupert. Now tell me all aboutit. What form are you in, old boy?"_Nephew_ (_just returned from Harrow_). "Well, uncle, not so bad, Ithink. I can generally manage a couple of eggs, two sausages, orkidneys, some Dundee marmalade, and two cups of coffee for breakfast. Ialways have a little luncheon, any amount of roast beef or mutton fordinner, and I generally look in at the confectioner's in the afternoon,and invariably wind up with a good supper. What do you think of that?"[_Disappointed and misunderstood uncle subsides,and thinks it best to make no comments._[Illustration]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Old Gentleman_ (_who has not hurried over his dinner,and has just got his bill_). "Waiter, what's this? I'm charged heretwopence for stationery. You know I've had none----"_Irish Waiter._ "Faix! yer honour, I don't know. Y'ave been sittin' herea long t-h-ime, anyhow!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "A STRICT REGARD FOR TRUTH."--_Nephew._ "Hold up, uncle,people'll think you're screwed!"_Uncle_ (_the wedding breakfast had been hilarious_). "Shcrew'd! No, no,Sheorgsh! No' sh' bad 'sh that! 'Shame time--don' le'sh be"--(_lurchingheavily_)--"osht'n--tas'hly shober! 'Can't bear osht'ntash'n!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SEASONABLE LUXURY_Old Gent_ (_disgusted_). "Here, waiter! Here's a--here'sa--a--caterpillar in this chop!"_Waiter_ (_flippantly_). "Yessir. About the time o' year for 'em justnow, sir!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE "STATUS QUO ANTE."--_Squire_ (_desiring to improvethe taste of his country friends, has introduced at his table, in theplace of the usual brandied Spanish and Portuguese wines, the naturalvintages of France and Germany_). "Now, Mr. Barleymead, how do you likethis 'Chateau Lafitte'? Another glass----" _Farmer B._ "Thanky, sir;it's uncommon nice.--(_He had drunk a bottle or two._)--But we don'tseem to get no forruder!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: COMING OUT AS A CONVERSATIONALIST_Young Ganderson_ (_proudly conscious of the general attention_) "Ohyes, it's in _Soho_, you know. I know the place well. They give you acapital dinner for eighteenpence--wine included."_Host_ (_proud of his cellar_). "And is the wine drinkable?"_Young Ganderson._ "Oh yes--very good--better than the wine we'redrinking now!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: AN AFFECTIONATE HUSBAND_Tomkins._ "You are going it, old fellow! Real turtle, eh? and venisonto follow, eh?"_Jobkins._ "Why, yes--you see it's my wife's birthday; and as she dinesearly, I thought I'd celebrate the anniversary in the city."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: MISTAKEN IDENTITY.--(_As the De Smiths, to whosedinner-party he was invited, lived in the next square, Brown thought hewould walk over._) _Head waiter_ (_under a wrong impression_). "Thiswon't do, young man! We've been expectin' o' you this 'our and a 'alf!No napkins laid, no glasses, no----!!!"[_Brown never got over it all the evening._]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: AN AWFUL CRAMMER_Proprietor of boarding-house_ (_taking stout guest aside_). "You'llexcuse me, Mr. Sharpset, but your appetite is so large that I shall becompelled to charge you a shilling extra. It can't be done at twoshillings!"_Diner._ "No! For heaven's sake don't do that! I can eat twoshillings'-worth easy; but if I have to do three--I really--afraid Ishould--but I'll try!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE BETTING EVIL._Waiter_ (_down tube_). "Wild duck, one!"_Voice from the kitchen._ "Did he? Just like my luck. Backed anotherwrong 'un!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: NOT VERY LIKELY_Waiter_ (_in response to the Colonel's very vigorous reminder_). "Ohyes, sir, immediately! 'M--let's see--a _glass of milk_, sir, wasn'tit?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: FIGURATIVE_Head Waiter_ (_the Old Gent had wished for a stronger cheese_). "Hi!James--let loose the Gorgonzola!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: BEWILDERING_Mr. Wuzzles_ (_up for the cattle-show_). "Cheese, waiter!"'_Robert._' "Yessir! Rockfor', commonbare, grew'ere, noochattell,gorgumzo----"_Mr. Wuzzles_ (_testily_). "No, no! I said _cheese_!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "ON THE FACE OF IT"_Host._ "I don't like this Lafitte half so well as the last, Binns. Haveyou noticed any difference?"_New Butler._ "Well, sir, for myself I don't drink claret; I find portagrees with me so much better!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: AWFUL WARNING!--_Guest_ (_at City Company dinner_). "I'muncommonly hungry!"_Ancient Liveryman_ (_with feeling_). "Take care, my dear sir, forgoodness' sake, take care! D' you know it happened to me at the lastLord Mayor's dinner to burn my tongue with my first spoonful of clearturtle; 'consequence was--(_sighs_)--'couldn't taste atall--anything--for the rest of the evening!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: It is quite possible to have too much of a good thing--asfor example, when you get the asparagus shot over your favouritedress-coat with the silk facings.]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Testy Old Uncle_ (_unable to control his passion_)."Really, sir, this is quite intolerable! You must intend to insult me.For the last fourteen days, wherever I have dined, I have had nothingbut saddle of mutton and boiled turkey--boiled turkey and saddle ofmutton. I'll endure it no longer."[_Exit old gent, who alters his will._Moral.--_How ridiculous a man appears--particularly a man at a graveperiod of life--who is over-anxious about his eating and drinking!_]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "ALL THE DIFFERENCE"_Dyspeptic Diner._ "Um"--(_forking it suspiciously_)--"what is it,waiter?"'_Robert._' "It says 'ronyongs sorty' on the menoo, sir. But I can't saywhat it may be on the dish!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _His Partner._ "I really never heard a better speech inmy life! Such a wonderful flow of----"_He._ "Great Scott! That reminds me--I've left the bathroom tap at homefull on!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THE NICE LITTLE DINNER_Tommy_ (_who is standing a feed to Harry_). "Oh, hang it, you know,fourteen bob for a bottle of champagne! That's coming it rather strong,ain't it?"_Waiter_ (_with perfect composure_). "We have some _cheap_ wine, sir, athalf-a-guinea!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: TOO LITERAL BY HALFSCENE.--_A "cheap" chop-house not a hundred miles from L--nd--n.__Waiter._ "Paysir? Yessir--Whataveyeradsir?"_Matter-of-fact old gentleman_ (_who has been reading the "Quarterly" on"Food and its adulterations"_). "Had? why, let me see: I've had somehorsetail soup, spiced with red-lead and shop-sweepings: a plate ofroast cow, and cabbage boiled with verdigris: a crust of plaster ofParis, baked with alum and bone-dust: half-a-pint of porter brewed fromquassia and strychnine: and a cup of charred liver, annatto, and otherunknown ingredients."[_Exit waiter for a straight-waistcoat, and a stomach-pump._]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Dolly._ "Please, Miss Sharp, mamma says, have you_really_ left your songs at home?"_Miss Sharp._ "Yes, dear. Why?"_Dolly._ "Well, papa says 'it sounds too good to be true'!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: EUREKA!--_Isaacstein_ (_late of Whitechapel, showing oldfriend over bathroom in new house_). "What am I goin' to do with it?Vell, you see, I've always rather wanted a place where I could keepgoldfish!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Juvenile._ "Uncle!"_Uncle._ "Now then, what is it? This is the fourth time you've woke meup, sir!"_Juvenile._ "Oh! Just put a few coals on the fire, and pass the wine,that's a good old chap."]       *       *       *       *       *NURSERIANA.--_Little Chris._ "Oh! mamma, mamma, baby's moulted again."_Mamma._ "Moulted! What do you mean?"_Little Chris._ "Why, he's just dropped another tooth!"       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SAFEST WAY OF TAKING A LADY DOWN TO DINNER(Another reminiscence of the days of the crinoline)]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: SAT UPON_Hospitable Host._ "Does any gentleman say pudden?"_Precise Guest._ "No, sir. No _gentleman_ says _pudden_."]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: UNEXPECTED GRATUITY.--_Waiter._ "Beg pardon, sir, but Ithink you've made a mistake. This is a halfpenny!"_Old Gent_ (_grandly_). "Oh dear no--not at all, not at all! I nevergive less!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _Hickling_ (_to friend, who finds some difficulty inkeeping his cigar alight_). "I say, old man, what matches do yousmoke?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: _He._ "Fond of Bridge?"_She._ "Awfully!"_He._ "Do you know I always think there's something _wanting_ in peoplewho don't play?"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration:_Old Party_ (_very naturally excited_). "Why, confound you! You arewiping my plate with your handkerchief!"_Waiter_ (_blandly_). "It's of no consequence, sir--it's only a dirtyone!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: IN DESPERATE STRAITS_Jones_ (_blue ribbon--to abstemious lady he has taken in to dinner_)."Look here, madam, we don't seem to be getting on a _bit_! Either youmust have a glass of champagne, or, by Jove, I must!!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: THINGS ONE WOULD RATHER HAVE LEFT UNSAID_Guest_ (_who is a bon-vivant, to host, who isn't_). "You must come anddine with _me_, Jones!"_Host._ "With pleasure, my dear friend! When?"_Guest._ "_Now!_"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration: "NOT QUITE THE CHEESE!"_British Farmer._ "What sort o' cheese do you call this? Full o' holes!"_Waiter._ "Grew-yere, sir."_British Farmer_ (_suspiciously_). "Then just bring one that grewsomewhere else!"]       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration]THE ENDBRADBURY AGNEW & CO LD. PRINTERS, LONDON AND TONBRIDGE.       *       *       *       *       *End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Mr. Punch's After-Dinner Stories,edited by J. A. Hammerton*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MR. PUNCH'S AFTER-DINNER STORIES ******** This file should be named 33824.txt or 33824.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/3/8/2/33824/Produced by Neville Allen, Chris Curnow and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Thisfile was produced from images generously made availableby The Internet Archive)Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.?The Project Gutenberg EBook The Copyright Question by George MorangThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost norestrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it underthe terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook oronline at http://www.gutenberg.org/licenseTitle: The Copyright QuestionSubtitle: Reading by EstherAuthor: George MorangRelease Date: February 2007 [Ebook #20671]Language: English***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK The Copyright Question***This audio reading of The Copyright Question is read byEstherContentsChapter 1 - 00:44:00 Librivox Audio Recording Public Domain Certification:The person or persons who have associated work with this document (the"Dedicator" or "Certifier") hereby either (a) certifies that, to thebest of his knowledge, the work of authorship identified is in thepublic domain of the country from which the work is published, or (b)hereby dedicates whatever copyright the dedicators holds in the work ofauthorship identified below (the "Work") to the public domain. Acertifier, moreover, dedicates any copyright interest he may have in theassociated work, and for these purposes, is described as a "dedicator"below.A certifier has taken reasonable steps to verify the copyright status ofthis work. Certifier recognizes that his good faith efforts may notshield him from liability if in fact the work certified is not in thepublic domain.Dedicator makes this dedication for the benefit of the public at largeand to the detriment of the Dedicator's heirs and successors. Dedicatorintends this dedication to be an overt act of relinquishment inperpetuity of all present and future rights under copyright law, whethervested or contingent, in the Work. Dedicator understands that suchrelinquishment of all rights includes the relinquishment of all rightsto enforce (by lawsuit or otherwise) those copyrights in the Work.Dedicator recognizes that, once placed in the public domain, the Workmay be freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, used, modified,built upon, or otherwise exploited by anyone for any purpose, commercialor non-commercial, and in any way, including by methods that have notyet been invented or conceived.Audio formats available:128kbit MP3 - MP3 subfolder64kbit Ogg Vorbis (variable bit rate) - OGG subfolderApple AAC audiobook (16kbit mono) - M4B subfolderSpeex - SPX subfolder***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK The Copyright Question***CREDITSOctober 2006            Posted to Project Gutenberg            Esther,            Librivox (www.librivox.org) and            Joshua HutchinsonA WORD FROM PROJECT GUTENBERGThis file should be named 20671.txt.This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:    http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/0/6/7/20671/Updated editions will replace the previous one ? the old editions will berenamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no oneowns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (andyou!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permissionand without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth in theGeneral Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying anddistributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the ProjectGutenberg-tm concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registeredtrademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless youreceive specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies ofthis eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBookfor nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given away? you may do practically _anything_ with public domain eBooks.Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE_Please read this before you distribute or use this work._To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (orany other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project Gutenberg"),you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense (available with this file or online athttp://www.gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.General Terms of Use & Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works1.A.By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work,you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all theterms of this license and intellectual property (trademark/copyright)agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all the terms of thisagreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies ofProject Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. If you paid a feefor obtaining a copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workand you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you mayobtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as setforth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B."Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be used on orassociated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to bebound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things that you cando with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works even without complyingwith the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.C below. There area lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works if youfollow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access toProject Gutenberg-tm electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation" orPGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States. If an individualwork is in the public domain in the United States and you are located inthe United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying,distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based onthe work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Ofcourse, we hope that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission ofpromoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing ProjectGutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of this agreement forkeeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You caneasily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in thesame format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when youshare it without charge with others.1.D.The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what youcan do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in a constantstate of change. If you are outside the United States, check the laws ofyour country in addition to the terms of this agreement beforedownloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creatingderivative works based on this work or any other Project Gutenberg-tm work.The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status ofany work in any country outside the United States.1.E.Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate accessto, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently wheneverany copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the phrase"Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project Gutenberg"is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied ordistributed:    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with    almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away    or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License    included with this eBook or online at http://www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived from thepublic domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted withpermission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied anddistributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees orcharges. If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with thephrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, youmust comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tmtrademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.3.If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted with thepermission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must complywith both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposedby the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked to the ProjectGutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the permission of thecopyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm Licenseterms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or anyother work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronicwork, or any part of this electronic work, without prominently displayingthe sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with active links or immediateaccess to the full terms of the Project Gutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed,marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any wordprocessing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version postedon the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (http://www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other form.Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm License asspecified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing,copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works unless you complywith paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to ordistributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided that    - You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from      the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method you      already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed to      the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has agreed to      donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg      Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid within 60      days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally      required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty payments      should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg      Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4,      "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary      Archive Foundation."    - You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies      you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he      does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm License.      You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the      works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and      all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm works.    - You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of      any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the      electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of      receipt of the work.    - You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free      distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm electronicwork or group of works on different terms than are set forth in thisagreement, you must obtain permission in writing from both the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael Hart, the owner of theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth inSection 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort toidentify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread public domainworks in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite theseefforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, and the medium on which theymay be stored, may contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to,incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyrightor other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged diskor other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannotbe read by your equipment.1.F.2.LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES ? Except for the "Right ofReplacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tmtrademark, and any other party distributing a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you fordamages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVENO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACHOF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3. YOU AGREE THAT THEFOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENTWILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITYOF SUCH DAMAGE.1.F.3.LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND ? If you discover a defect in thiselectronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refundof the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written explanation tothe person you received the work from. If you received the work on aphysical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation.The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may electto provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. If you received thework electronically, the person or entity providing it to you may chooseto give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically inlieu of a refund. If the second copy is also defective, you may demand arefund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth inparagraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ?AS-IS,? WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or theexclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. If any disclaimer orlimitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the stateapplicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be interpreted to makethe maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by the applicable statelaw. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreementshall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.INDEMNITY ? You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the trademarkowner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone providing copies ofProject Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance with this agreement, andany volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distributionof Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, harmless from all liability, costsand expenses, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly fromany of the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution ofthis or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, oradditions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defectyou cause.Section  2.           Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of electronicworks in formats readable by the widest variety of computers includingobsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It exists because of theefforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walksof life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistancethey need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm?s goals and ensuringthat the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will remain freely available forgenerations to come. In 2001, the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future forProject Gutenberg-tm and future generations. To learn more about the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donationscan help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation web page athttp://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.   Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive FoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state ofMississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service.The Foundation?s EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf. Contributions to the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the fullextent permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state?s laws.The Foundation?s principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr.S. Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations. Its business office is located at 809 North1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to date contact informationcan be found at the Foundation?s web site and official page athttp://www.pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:    Dr. Gregory B. Newby    Chief Executive and Director    gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive                                FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide spreadpublic support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing thenumber of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributedin machine readable form accessible by the widest array of equipmentincluding outdated equipment. Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) areparticularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United States.Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerableeffort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with theserequirements. We do not solicit donations in locations where we have notreceived written confirmation of compliance. To SEND DONATIONS ordetermine the status of compliance for any particular state visithttp://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we havenot met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition againstaccepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach uswith offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make anystatements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside theUnited States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation methodsand addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways includingchecks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate, pleasevisit: http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateSection 5.      General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared withanyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project Gutenberg-tmeBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed editions,all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S. unless a copyrightnotice is included. Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooks in compliancewith any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook?s eBooknumber, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII, compressed(zipped), HTML and others.Corrected _editions_ of our eBooks replace the old file and take over theold filename and etext number. The replaced older file is renamed._Versions_ based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:    http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm, including howto make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation,how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our emailnewsletter to hear about new eBooks.***FINIS***The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Calico Cat, by Charles Miner ThompsonThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: The Calico CatAuthor: Charles Miner ThompsonIllustrator: F. R. GrugerRelease Date: December 3, 2006 [EBook #20010]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CALICO CAT ***Produced by Jacqueline Jeremy, David Edwards and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Thisbook was produced from scanned images of public domainmaterial from the Google Print project.)THE CALICO CATBYCHARLES MINER THOMPSONWITH ILLUSTRATIONS BYF. R. GRUGER[Illustration: Logo]BOSTON AND NEW YORKHOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANYThe Riverside Press Cambridge1908COPYRIGHT, 1908, BY CHARLES MINER THOMPSONALL RIGHTS RESERVED_Published October, 1908_SECOND IMPRESSIONTO MY WIFENOTEI have to make these acknowledgments: to Mr. Ira Rich Kent for manya helpful suggestion in the framing of the story; to the publishersof "The Youth's Companion," in which the tale first appeared, forpermitting the use of Mr. Gruger's admirable illustrations, and toMr. Francis W. Hight for the very pleasant cat which he has drawnfor the cover.THE AUTHOR[Illustration: Cat dozing upon the top of the fence.]THE CALICO CATIMr. Peaslee looked more complacent than ever. It was Saturday noon,and Solomon had just returned from his usual morning sojourn"up-street." He had taken off his coat, and was washing his face atthe sink, while his wife was "dishing up" the midday meal. There wassalt codfish, soaked fresh, and stewed in milk--"picked up," as thephrase goes; there were baked potatoes and a thin, pale-looking pie.Mrs. Peaslee did not believe in pampering the flesh, and she didbelieve in saving every possible cent."Well," said Mr. Peaslee, as they sat down to this feast, "I guessI've got news for ye."His wife gazed at him with interest."Are ye drawed?" she asked."Got the notice from Whitcomb right in my pocket. Grand juror.September term. 'T ain't more'n a week off."The _staccato_ utterance was caused by the big mouthfuls of codfishand potato which, between phrases, Mr. Peaslee conveyed to hismouth. It was plain to see that he was greatly pleased with his newdignity."What do they give ye for it?" asked his wife. Solomon should acceptno office which did not bring profit."Two dollars a day and mileage," said Mr. Peaslee, with the emphasisof one who knows he will make a sensation."Mileage? What's that?""Travelin' expenses. State allows ye so much a mile. I get eightcents for goin' to the courthouse.""Ye get eight cents every day?" asked his wife, her eyes snapping.She was vague about the duties of a grand juror; maybe he had toearn his two dollars; but she had exact ideas about the trouble ofwalking "up-street." To get eight cents for that was being paid fordoing nothing at all, and she was much astonished at the idea."Likely now, ain't it?" said Mr. Peaslee, with masculine scorn."State don't waste money that way! Mileage's to get ye there an'take ye home again when term's over. You're s'posed to stay round'tween whiles.""Humph!" said his wife, disappointed. "They give ye two dollars aday"--she hazarded the shot--"just for settin' round and talkin',don't they? Walkin's considerable more of an effort for most folks.""'Settin' round an' talkin'!'" exclaimed Mr. Peaslee, so indignantlythat he stopped eating for a moment, knife and fork upright in hisrigid, scandalized hands, while he gazed at his thin, energetic,shrewish little wife. "'Settin' round and talkin'!' It's mightyimportant work, now I tell ye. I guess there wouldn't be much lawand order if it wa'n't for the grand jury. They don't take none butmen o' jedgment. Takes gumption, I tell ye. Ye have to pay money toget that kind.""Well," said his wife, with the air of one who concedes anunimportant point, "anyhow, it's good pay for a man whose time ain'tworth anythin'.""Ain't worth anythin'!" exclaimed Mr. Peaslee, in hurt tones. "Now,Sarepty, ye know better'n that. I don't know how they'll get alongwithout me up to the bank. They've got a pretty good idee o' myjedgment 'bout mortgages. They don't pass any without my say so."Mrs. Peaslee sniffed. "I've seen ye in the bank window, settin'round with Jim Bartlett and Si Spooner and the rest of 'em. Readin'the paper--that's all _I_ ever see ye doin'. Must be wearin' on ye.""Guess ye never heard what was said, did ye? Can't hear 'emthinkin', I guess. They're mighty shreued up to the bank, mightyshreued."They had finished their codfish and potato, and Mrs. Peaslee,without giving much attention to her husband's testimony to thebusiness acumen of his banking friends and incidentally of himself,pulled the pale, thin pie toward her and cut it."Pass up your plate," said she.When his plate was again in place before him, Mr. Peaslee insertedthe edge of his knife under the upper crust and raised it so that hecould get a better view of its contents; he had his suspicions ofthat pie. What he saw confirmed them; between the crusts was a thin,soft layer of some brown stuff, interspersed with spots of red."Them's the currants we had for supper the night before last, andthat's the dried-apple sauce we had for supper last night," heannounced accurately. "An' ye know how I like a proper pie.""I ain't goin' to waste good victuals," said his wife, withdecision.There was silence for a moment; Solomon did not dare make anyfurther protest."I suppose," his wife said, picking up again the thread of herthoughts, "ye'll have to wear your go-to-meetin' suit all the timeto the grand jury. I expect they'll be all wore out at the end.That'll take off something. You be careful, now. Settin' round'sawful wearin' on pants. You get a chair with a cushion. And don't yego treatin' cigars. And don't ye go to the hotel for your victuals.I ain't goin' to have ye spendin' your money when ye can just aswell come home. Where ye goin' now?"Mr. Peaslee was putting on his coat. "Well," he said, "I kind o'thought I'd step over to Ed'ards's. I thought mebbe he'd beinterested.""Goin' to brag, are ye?" was his wife's remorseless comment. "Muchgood it'll do ye, talkin' to that hatchet-face. He ain't so pious ashe looks, if all stories are true."But Mr. Peaslee was already outside the door. She raised her voiceshrilly. "You be back, now; them chickens has got to be fed!"Mr. Peaslee sought a more sympathetic audience. Being drawn for thegrand jury had greatly flattered his vanity, for it encouraged asecret ambition which he had long held to get into public life.Service on the grand jury might lead to his becoming selectman,perhaps justice of the peace, perhaps town representative fromEllmington--who knew what else? He looked down a pleasant vista ofincreasing office, at the end of which stood the state capitol. Hecould be senator, perhaps! And he began planning his behavior asjuror, the dignified bearing, the well-matured utterances, theshrewd cross-questioning. At the end of his service his neighborswould know him for a man of solid judgment, a "safe" man to beintrusted with weighty affairs.Mr. Peaslee was fifty-three years old. He had a comfortable figure,a clean-shaven, round face, and blue eyes much exaggerated for thespectator by the strong lenses of a pair of great spectacles. These,with his gray hair, gave him a benevolence of aspect which somewhatmisrepresented him. As a matter of fact, although good-humored andnot without a still surviving capacity for generous impulse, he wasonly less "near" than his wife. Childishly vain, he bore himselfwith an air of self-satisfaction not without its charm for humorousneighbors. They said that they guessed he thought himself "somepunkins.""Some punkins" most people admitted him to be, although how much ofhis money and how much of his shrewdness was really his wife's wasmatter of debate among those who knew him best. At any rate, thePeaslees had made money. A few years before, they had sold theirfat farm "down-river" advantageously, and had bought the dignifiedwhite house in Ellmington in which they have just been seen eating adinner which looks as if they were "house poor." That they were not;they had thirty thousand dollars in the local bank, partly investedin its stock. In Ellmington Mrs. Peaslee was less lonely, andthrough Mr. Peaslee was an unsuspected director in the bank, and ashrewd user of the chances for profitable investment which herhusband's association with the "bank crowd" opened to her.As for Mr. Peaslee, he did not know that he himself was not thebusiness head of the house; and his garden, his chickens, and hispleasant loafing in the bank window kept him contentedly occupied.For, in spite of her shrewish tongue, Mrs. Peaslee had tact enoughto let her husband have the credit for her business acumen. "I ain'tgoin' to let on," she said to herself, "that he ain't just as goodas the rest of 'em." She had her pride.As Mr. Peaslee stepped along the straight walk which divided hisneat lawn, and opened the neat gate in his neat white fence, he metSam Barton, the broad-shouldered, good-humored giant who wasconstable of Ellmington. Sam gave him a smiling "How are ye,squire?" as he passed."Guess he's heard," said Mr. Peaslee to himself, much pleased. Yet,as a matter of fact, the greeting was not different from that whichSam had given him daily for the past three years.Once on the sidewalk, Mr. Peaslee turned to the right toward thehouse of his neighbor, Mr. Edwards. Edwards was a younger man thanPeaslee, perhaps forty-seven. His business was speculating inlumber and cattle, and in the interest of this he was constantlypassing and re passing the Canadian border, which was not far fromEllmington. In the intervals between his trips he was much at home.He was a stern, silent, secretive man, and simply because he was soclose-mouthed there was much guessing and gossip, not wholly kind,about his affairs.Mr. Peaslee found the front door of the Edwards house standing openin the trustful village fashion, and, with neighborly freedom,walked in without ringing. He turned first into the sitting-room,where he found no one, and then into a rear room opening from it.This obviously was a boy's "den." On the table in the centre were acheckerboard, some loose string, a handful of spruce gum, somescattered marbles, a broken jack-knife, a cap, a shot-pouch, an oldbird's nest, a powder-flask, a dog-eared copy of "Caesar'sCommentaries," open, and a Latin dictionary, also open. In a cornerstood a fishing-rod in its cotton case; along the wall were rangedbait-boxes, a fishing-basket, a pair of rubber boots, and a hugewasp's nest. Leaning against the sill of the open window was adouble-barreled shotgun, and on the sill itself were some black,greasy rags and a small bottle of oil.Various truths might be inferred from the disarray. One was that Mr.Edwards was generous to his son Jim, and another was that there wasno Mrs. Edwards. Further, it might be easily enough guessed that Jimhad been lured from the study of Latin, in which pretty Miss Ware,who was his teacher at the "Union" school, was trying to interesthim, by the attractive idea of oiling his gun-barrels, and thatsomething still more attractive--perhaps a boy with crossed fingers,for it was not too late for swimming--had lured him from that. Atany rate, Jim was not there.Mr. Peaslee, still bent on finding Mr. Edwards, moved toward theopen window. But he could see no signs of life anywhere. None of thehousehold was, however, far away. Jim was in the loft of the barn,where he was carefully examining a barrel of early apples with aview to filling his pockets with the best; the housekeeper hadmerely stepped across the street to borrow some yeast, and Mr.Edwards, who had a headache, was lying down in the chamberimmediately above Jim's den.Mr. Peaslee stood and gazed. He eyed in turn the kitchen ell, theshed, and the barn, and then gazed out over the "posy" garden, wherestill bloomed a few late flowers, of which he recognized only the"chiny" asters. He looked toward what he himself would have calledthe "sarce" garden, with its cabbages, turnips, rustlingcorn-stalks, and drying tomato-vines. Seeing no one there, he senthis gaze to the distant rows of apple trees, bright with ripeningfruit. Disappointed, he was about to turn away, but he could notresist taking a complacent, sweeping view of his own adjoiningpossessions.There, on the right, ran the long line of his own dwelling,continued by the five-foot board fence separating his garden fromMr. Edwards's. This stood up gauntly white until near the orchard,where it was completely hidden by the high, feathery stalks of theasparagus-bed, by a row of great sunflowers, now heavy and bent withtheir disk-like seed-pods, and by a clump of lilac bushes. As hiseye traveled along the white expanse, he gave a quick start, and hisface clouded with vexation.There in the sun, prone upon the top of the fence, dozed the bane ofhis life--_the Calico Cat_.Her coat was made up of patches of yellow and white, varied witha black stocking on her right hind leg, and a large, round, blackspot about her right eye, which gave her a peculiarly predatory anddisreputable appearance. Solomon had disliked her at sight. Eversince he had bought the house in Ellmington he had been trying todrive her from the premises, but stay away she would not. Not allthe missiles in existence could convince her that his house was nota desirable place of abode. And she was a constant vexation andannoyance.She jumped from the fence plump into the middle of newly plantedflower-beds; she filled the haymow with kittens; she asked all herfriends to the barn, where she gave elaborate musical parties athours more fashionably late than were tolerated in Ellmington.Whenever she had indigestion she ate off the tops of the choicestgreen things that grew in the garden; but when her appetite was goodshe caught and devoured his young chickens.Moreover, when at bay she frightened him. Once he had cornered thespitting creature in a stall. Claws out, tail big, fur all on end,she had leaped straight at his head, which he ducked, and, landingsquarely upon it, had steadied herself there for a moment withsharp, protruding claws; thence she had jumped to a feed-box, thenceto a beam, thence to the mow, from the dusky recesses of which shehad glared at him with big, green, menacing eyes. Not since thatexperience, which, in spite of his soft hat, had left certain marksupon his scalp, had he ever attempted to catch her. Instead, he hadborrowed a gun, and a dozen times had fired at her; but although hecounted himself a fair shot, he had never made even a scant bit offur fly from her disreputable back.And now he knew she laughed at him. Yes, laughed at him, for she hadmore than human intelligence. There was something demoniac in hercleverness, her immunity from harm, her prodigious energy, hermalevolent mischief, her raillery. Actually, he had grown morbidabout the beast; he had a superstitious feeling that in the end shewould bring him bad luck. How he hated her!There she lay, with eyes shut, unsuspecting, comfortable, andbasked in the warm September sunshine. Here at his hand was adouble-barreled shotgun. The chance was too good. This vagrant,this outlaw, this trespasser, this thief--he catalogued hermisdeeds in his mind as he clanged the ramrod down the barrelsto see if the piece was loaded.It was not. But ammunition was at hand. He put in a generous chargefrom Jim's powder-flask and rammed it home with a paper wad. Hegrabbed up the shot-pouch and released the proper charge into hishand. He was disappointed; it was bird shot. Scattering as it wouldscatter, it could do _that_ cat no harm. Nevertheless, he poured thepellets into the barrel. As he rammed home the paper wad on top ofthese, his eye caught the marbles lying on the table. He took onethat fitted, and rammed that home also--for luck. He placed a cap,lifted the gun to his shoulder, and fired.With a leap which sent her six feet into the air the Calico Catlanded four-square in Mr. Peaslee's chicken-yard, almost on the backof the dignified rooster, which fled with a startled squawk. Shedodged like lightning across the chicken-yard, between cackling andclattering hens, went up the wire-netting walls, leaped to the roof,paused, considered, began to reflect that she had been shot atbefore and to wonder at her own fright, stopped, and, sitting downon the ridgepole, looked inquiringly in Mr. Peaslee's direction. Shewas, of course, entirely unharmed.But other matters were claiming Mr. Peaslee's attention. Outfrom behind the screen formed by the asparagus plumes, thecurrant-bushes, the sunflowers, and the lilacs, all of whichgrew not so far from the spot on the fence where the CalicoCat had been sitting, fell a man!Solomon had a mere glimpse. Standing behind taller bushes, thestranger had fallen behind lower ones, and only while his fallingfigure was describing the narrow segment of a circle had he beenvisible.But the glimpse was enough. Mr. Peaslee's jaw dropped, his faceturned white. But the next moment he gave a great sigh of relief. Hesaw the man rise and slip into cover of the bushes, and so disappearthrough the orchard. He had not, then, killed the fellow!Relieved of that fear, he thought of himself. What would people saywere he charged with firing at a man--he, a respectable citizen, adirector in the bank, a grand juror? They must not know!He silently laid the gun back against the window-sill, turned withinfinite care, and tiptoed quickly back into the sitting-room, intothe hall, into the street.Not a soul was visible. Nevertheless, such was Mr. Peaslee'sagitation, so strongly did he feel the need of silence, that,placing a shaking hand upon the fence to steady himself, he tiptoedalong the sidewalk all the way to his own house. There the fear ofhis wife struck him. He was in no condition to meet that sharp-eyed,quick-tongued lady!He softly entered the front door and penetrated to the dark parlor,where, as no one would ever enter it except for a funeral or awedding, he felt safe from intrusion. There he sank down upon theslippery horsehair lounge, and, staring helplessly at the severeportrait of Mrs. Peaslee, done by a lugubrious artist in crayon,wiped the sweat from his forehead and tried to collect his scatteredfaculties."Whew!" he breathed. "Whew!"[Illustration: Cat licking paw.]IIMeanwhile, at the Edwards house, life had grown suddenlyinteresting.When the report of the gun reached Jim, he had stopped pawing overthe apple barrel, and was sitting on the upper step of the staircaseat the extreme end of the loft, slowly munching an apple andthinking.Jim was a healthy, active boy, with no more sense than naturallybelongs to a boy of fifteen, and with a lively imagination, whichhad been most unfortunately overstimulated. Without a mother, andwith a father who paid him scant attention, he read whatever heliked, and as a result, his head was full of romantic road-agentsdelightfully kind to little crippled daughters at home, fiercepirates who supported aged and respectable mothers, and consideratebandits who restored valuable watches when told that they wereprized on account of tender associations.His imagination had been still further fed by certain local legendsand happenings, highly colored enough to excite the keenestinterest. Ellmington is, as has been said, near the Canadian border.The place abounds in tales of smuggling, and the popular gossip, asgossip everywhere has a pleasing way of doing, associates the namesof the most respectable and unlikely people with the disreputableventures of the smugglers.Of course a story of contraband trade is the more striking if thenarrator can hint that the judge of probate or the most stern ofvillage deacons might tell a good deal if he were disposed, andthere are always persons ready to give this sort of interest totheir "yarns."In Ellmington lived Jake Farnum, an ex-deputy marshal and anincorrigible liar, about whom gathered the boys, Jim among them, tohear exciting stories of chase and detection, exactly as boys in aseaport town gather about an old sailor to hear tales of pirates andbuccaneers. And Jake loved to hint darkly that the best peopleshared in the illicit traffic.With it all, Jim's sense of right and wrong was in a fair way tobecome hopelessly "mixed." Exactly as boys at the seashore are proneto believe that a pirate is, on the whole, an admirable character,so these border boys, and especially Jim, had come to feel--onlywith more excuse, because of the generally indulgent view of thecommunity--that smuggling is an occupation in which any one mayengage with credit, and which is much more interesting than most.Now it is not likely that Jim's father, a stern, secretive,obviously prosperous man, with an intermittent business whichtook him back and forth across the border, could in all thisgossip escape a touch of suspicion. No one, of course, deniedthat he really did deal in lumber and cattle; the fact wasobvious. But there were hints and whispers, shrewd shakingsof the head, and more than one "guessed" that all Edwards'sprofits "didn't come from cattle, no, nor lumber, neither."Latterly these whispers had become more definite. Pete Lamoury,a French-Canadian, whom Mr. Edwards had hired as a drover, andabruptly discharged, was spreading stories about his formeremployer which made Blackbeard, the pirate, seem like a babe bycomparison. Pete was not a very credible witness; but still,building upon a suspicion that already existed, he succeeded inadding something to its substantiality.These stories had come to Jim's ears, and Jim was delighted. Theconsideration that, were the stories true, his father was a criminaldid not occur to him at all. Like the foolish, romantic boy he was,he was simply pleased to think of his father as a man of irondetermination, cool wit, unshakable courage, whom no deputy sheriffcould over-match, and who was leading a life full of excitement anddanger--the smuggler king! The only thing that Jim regretted wasthat his father did not let him share in these exploits. He knew hecould be useful! But his father's manner was habitually soforbidding that Jim did not dare hint a knowledge of these probableundertakings, much less any desire to share them.Poor Mr. Edwards! He loved his boy, but did not in the least knowhow to show it. Silent, with a sternness of demeanor which he wasunable wholly to lay aside even in his friendliest moments, muchaway from home, and unable to meet the boy on his own level when hewas there, deprived of the wife who might have been his interpreter,he had no way of becoming acquainted with his son. Anxious in someway to share in Jim's life, he took the clumsy and mistaken methodof letting him have too much pocket-money.Yet if Jim, thus unguided and overindulged, had gone astray in hisconduct, Mr. Edwards was not the man to know his mistake and takethe blame. He had in him a rigidity of moral judgment, a dryness ofmind which made it certain that if Jim did do what he disapproved,he would visit upon him a punishment at once severe andunsympathetic. The man's air of cold strength excited in the sonfear as well as admiration; his reserve kept his naturallyaffectionate boy at more than arm's length. Poor Mr. Edwards! PoorJim! Misunderstanding between them was as sure to occur as the riseof to-morrow's sun.Pat on Jim's speculations about his father's stirring deeds, thegunshot came echoing through the silent barn. Jim ran to the loftdoor and looked out. He saw smoke curling up from the window of his"den," and knew that it was his own gun that had been fired. Back inthe room, a vague masculine figure moved hastily out of the door.Jim looked toward the orchard, and caught sight of another mandisappearing in the trees. He was wild with excitement. As he knewthat his father was the only person in the house, he was sure thathis father had fired the shot.The tales that he had heard, his belief in his father's life ofadventure, made him conclude that here was some smuggler's quarrel.So vividly did the notion take possession of his inflamedimagination that nothing henceforth could shake it. He simply_knew_ what had happened.And his father had fled, leaving all the evidences of his shotbehind him! Jim's loyal heart bounded; here he could help. Heturned, raced across the loft, clattered down the steep, cobwebbystairs, slipped through the shed passage, through the kitchen, andon into his own room.He knew what to do. Nothing must show that the gun had ever beenused! He set feverishly to work. He swabbed out the weapon, and hungit on its rack over the mantel. He tossed the rags into thefireplace and covered them with ashes. He put the shot-pouch and thepowder-flask into their proper drawer. Then he pulled a chair to thetable and set himself to a pretended study of Caesar. If any oneshould come, it would look as if he had been quietly studying allthe morning.All this had cost considerable self-denial; for of course he boiledwith curiosity about the man in the orchard. He did not dare to goout there, but now, stealthily glancing out of the window, he sawhis father returning from the garden with long strides. Jimunderstood. His father, going out at the front door, had slippedround to the side of the house, so that it would look as if he hadcome from the street.He was not surprised that his father looked stern and angry. Thatfellow must have done something mighty mean, he thought, to make hisfather shoot; and he admired at once the magnanimity and the skillwhich had merely winged the man, as he supposed, by way, presumably,of teaching him a lesson. Then, struck by the boldness and opennessof his father's return to the house, Jim suddenly felt that he hadbeen foolish; that the cleaning of the gun had not been needed.What man would dare, after such a lesson, to complain against hisfather!Mr. Edwards walked straight into Jim's room. Aroused from his nap bythe shot, he had leaped to the window and seen the man fall. He hadthen turned and run downstairs so quickly that he had not seen thefellow half-rise and crawl into the bushes; and, having reached thespot, he was much relieved, if somewhat staggered, to find no body.He did find tracks, for this was plowed ground; but they told himnothing of the wounded man except that he had left in a hurry on apair of rather large feet.He looked about for a while, and then started toward the house,determined to have an explanation with Jim. He knew Jim's gun by thesound of its report, and felt no doubt that the boy had fired theshot. What sort of culpable accident had happened?Suffering still with the splitting headache which he had been tryingto sleep off, angry with Jim for his carelessness, concerned lestthe man were really injured, Mr. Edwards was in his leastcompromising mood."How did it happen?" he asked, without preface. His tones wereharsh, and he fixed Jim with stern eyes."How did it happen!" repeated Jim, in pure surprise. Certainly hisfather knew much better than he how it had happened."Speak out!" said Mr. Edwards, impatiently. "How did you come toshoot that man? I want to know about it.""Me!" cried Jim, in complete bewilderment. "I--I haven't shot anyman, father! You know I haven't."Mr. Edwards, never a man of nice observation, and now bewilderedwith anger and headache, took his son's genuine astonishment formere pretense and subterfuge. Were not the facts plain?"I don't want any nonsense about this," he said incisively. "Iheard your gun. I saw the man fall. No one else but you couldpossibly have fired it. It's useless to lie, and I won't standit. Tell me at once what happened.""I didn't shoot him, father. You _know_ I didn't!" reiterated Jim,more and more dumfounded. "I don't know how it happened, honestInjun--I don't, father!"Mr. Edwards's mouth shut tight. He swept the room with his eyesuntil they rested upon the gun in the rack over the mantelpiece.He stepped forward, took it down, and examined it. Holding it in hishands, he gazed about the floor. A rag which the ashes in thefireplace had not wholly covered caught his attention."You cleaned the gun and put it away," he said grimly. "Then youtried to hide the rag with which you cleaned it," and he touched thebit of cloth sticking from the ashes contemptuously with his foot."What do you expect me to think from that?"Jim was silent. The boy was unlike his father in many ways, but theywere alike in this: they both were proud. Each would meet an unjustaccusation in silence. And Jim was beginning to show another of hisfather's characteristics. A still anger was beginning to burn in himagainst this man who accused him of a deed which he himself haddone, and he felt rising within him a stubborn will to endure, notto surrender. If his father was going to act like that, why, lethim--"Where is your shot-pouch?" asked Mr. Edwards.Jim motioned toward the drawer."Is your powder-flask there, too?""Yes."Mr. Edwards was silent After all, he was a just man. He was trying,as well as his headache would let him, to see things straight."It's plain what happened," he said at last. "You had an accidentand got frightened. You cleaned your gun, you hid the rags, you putaway your ammunition, you got your books and pretended to study.You're afraid to tell the truth now."Jim's face flushed hotly, but he kept silent. Such assurance, suchcruelty, he had never imagined. If this was what smugglers werelike--if this was a sample of their tricks--"I'll give you one more chance to tell the truth," said Mr. Edwards."Did you do it?""No, I didn't!" said Jim, and his jaw snapped close like hisfather's."Very well," said Mr. Edwards. "I'll leave you until you changeyour mind. You will stay here. Sarah will bring you bread and milkat supper-time. If you're willing to talk to me then, you may tellher that you'd like to see me."He turned to go, then paused."It's a serious matter; and all the facts are against you. It wouldgo hard with you in court. It will go harder if you stick to yourstubborn and foolish lie. One thing more: if you don't choose totell the truth, you will have to reckon with the law as well aswith me."Mr. Edwards, upon this, shut the door and departed. His was a sternfigure, but the hurt within was very sore. This, then, he reflectedbitterly, was the kind of boy he had. He suffered deeply at thediscovery, which for him was unquestionable.Jim felt outraged. He had done his loyal best to save his fatherfrom the consequences of his rash act, and now, with incredibleingenuity and cool injustice, his father was using his son's acts ofhelpfulness to make it appear that he had done the deed. Without ascruple, his father had made him a scapegoat.Jim told himself that he would gladly have taken the blame had hisfather, as chief of the band, demanded the sacrifice of this, hisdevoted follower. Nay, more, he would have endured the ordealwithout a murmur had his father, deeming it unsafe to enter intoformal explanations, only hinted to him that this was a farce whichthey two must play together. If his father had only winked at him!Surely he might have done that with safety! But not to be admittedto the secret,--not to be allowed to play the heroic part,--to beused as an ignoble tool by a father who neither loved him nor knewhis courage,--that was too much! He would not betray his father--no,a thousand times, no! But the day would come--The afternoon dragged on. Jim sat there in his room, looking outinto the pleasant sunshine, conscious that the boys were playing"three old cat" in the field not faraway--as rebellious andmagnanimous, as hot and angry, as heroic and morally muddled a boyas one could wish to see. And looking at the affair from his pointof view, not many people will blame him. It is delightful, ofcourse, to have a pirate chief for father; but what if he makes youwalk the plank?It is amusing to think of Mr. Peaslee and Jim each shut up in hisrespective room; but if Mr. Peaslee in his gloomy parlor--faced bythe crayon portrait of his masterful wife, a vase of wax flowersunder a glass dome, the family Bible on a marble-topped table, andthree stiff horsehair-covered chairs--had the advantage of beingable to leave at any moment, he was even more perturbed in mind."Terrible awk'ard mess," he kept repeating to himself, as he moppedhis damp forehead with his handkerchief, "terrible awk'ard." Andindeed it would be awkward for a respectable citizen with politicalaspirations to be accused before a grand jury of which he is amember of assault with a dangerous weapon upon an inoffensive man.Mr. Peaslee's reflections rose in a strophe of hope and fell in anantistrophe of despair."'T ain't likely it hurt him any--just bird shot," said Hope."Bird shot's mighty irritatin'--specially to a wrathy fellow," saidDespair.And alternating thus, his thoughts ran on: "Bird shot'll show Ididn't have any serious _in_tent; but mebbe a piece of the marblestruck him. He went off mighty lively; don't seem as if he'd beenhurt _much_; more scared hurt, likely. But he might have been hurtbad, arm or suthin', mebbe. Marble! 'T ain't anythin' but bakedclay; split all to pieces prob'ly--but ye can't tell. I've heard yecan shoot a taller candle through an inch plank--and that'sconsid'able softer than a marble. And that pesky cat's jest asfrisky as ever!"Had any one seen him? There certainly had not been any one in thestreet, but where had been Mr. Edwards, Jim, the housekeeper? Wherehad his own wife been? There were windows from which she might haveseen him returning, some from which she might even have seen himfire the fatal shot. But pshaw, there now! Probably no one had seenhim at all, not even his wife, not even his victim! Probably no onewould ever find out."Must have been some worthless feller, stealin' apples, mebbe, whowon't dare make a fuss. 'T ain't likely I'll ever hear anythin' ofit. 'T ain't no use sayin' anythin' till suthin' happens. What folksdon't know don't hurt 'em none."The structure of comfort which he thus built himself was shakyindeed, but it had to serve. He nerved himself to meet his wife. Hemust not excite her suspicion by too long an absence. She wasdoubtless full of curiosity, for of course she had heard the shot,and would expect him to know what it meant.It would not do to seem to enter the house by the front door, sacredto formal occasions, so, sneaking outdoors again, he slipped roundto the side of the house, and with much trepidation went into thekitchen.His wife began the moment she saw him. "Well, of all the crazycarryings on!" she cried. "What's the Ed'ards boy firin' off gunsfor, right under peaceable folks' windows? I'm goin' to speak to Mr.Ed'ards right off.""Now don't ye, Sarepty, now don't ye!" said Mr. Peaslee, in alarm.Relieved as he was to find himself unsuspected, he did not like theidea of having his wife pick a quarrel with Mr. Edwards for what hehimself had done! The less said about that shot the better he wouldbe pleased."For the land's sake, why not, I should like to know?""Well, now, Sarepty, I wouldn't. That Ed'ards boy ain't more of aboy than most boys, I guess. Always seemed a real peaceable littlefeller. And Ed'ards is kinder touchy, I guess. It might make hardfeelin'. 'T wouldn't look well for us to speak, bein' newcomers so.I wouldn't, Sarepty, I wouldn't. Mebbe some time I'll slide in aword, just slide it in kinder easy, if he does it again."And Mr. Peaslee looked appealingly at his wife through his bigspectacles, his eyes looking very large and pathetic through thestrong lenses."Humph!" said his wife, unmoved. "I ain't afraid of Ed'ards, if yoube."Nor could she be moved from her determination. Mr. Peaslee wasvastly disturbed.But presently he forgot this small annoyance in greater ones. Thatevening after tea, when he went up to the post-office, he heard thatPete Lamoury had been shot by Jim Edwards, and was now in bed withhis wounds. Jim's arrest was predicted. Young Farnsworth, who keptthe crockery store, told him the news. And presently Jake Hibbard,the worst "shyster" in the village, shuffled in--noticeable anywherefor his suit of rusty black, his empty sleeve pinned to his coat,the green patch over his eye, and his tobacco-stained lips. Heconfirmed the report."Pete's hurt bad," he said, shaking his head, "hurt bad. I've takenhis case. Young Edwards is going to see trouble."The speech frightened poor Mr. Peaslee, and he was hardly reassuredby the skeptical smile of Squire Tucker, and his remark that hewould believe that Lamoury was hurt when he saw him. The squire hadsmall faith in either Lamoury or Hibbard. He knew them both.But Mr. Peaslee returned home with dragging feet. Silent andpreoccupied all the evening, he went to bed early--but not to sleep.Long he lay awake and tossed, while the Calico Cat wailed on therear fence--exultant, triumphant, insulting.And when he did finally get to sleep, he dreamed that he was beingprosecuted in court by--was it Jake Hibbard, with the green patchover his eye, or the Calico Cat, with the black patch over hers? Hecould not tell, study the fantastic, ominous figure of hisprosecutor as he would![Illustration: Cat sitting on post looking forward.]IIIImmediately after breakfast on Monday morning Mr. Peaslee, in a moodof desperate self-sacrifice, started up-town to buy a knife--forJim!All day long on Sunday, when he had nothing to do but think, he hadstruggled between his fear of exposure and his sorrow for the boy.The upshot was a determination to "make it up to him" by giving hima knife. He had in his mind's eye a marvel--stag-horn handle, fourblades, saw, awl, file, hoof-hook, corkscrew! Such a knife as that,he felt, would console any boy for being arrested. "Most likely 'twill end right there," he said to himself."I guess I'd better go to Farley's," he thought, as he walked along."Farley owes money to the bank. He won't dare to stick it on likethe rest."But when he entered the store and looked about, his face fell. Mr.Farley was not there! Willie Potter, Farley's clerk, a young manpeculiarly distasteful to Solomon, lounged forward with a toothpickin his mouth. Mr. Peaslee had half a mind to go, but the thought ofpoor Jim held him back."What will you have to-day, Mr. Peaslee?" inquired Willie, affably.He winked at young Dannie Snow, who sat grinning on a keg of nails,as much as to say, "Watch me have some fun with the old man.""I thought mebbe I'd look at some jack-knives," said Solomon, eyeingWillie distrustfully."Yes, sir, I guess you want the best, regardless of expense," saidWillie, impudently. He well understood his customer's dislike forspending a penny. Stepping behind the counter, he drew from theshow-case and held up admiringly the most costly knife in the store."Here, now, what do you say to this? Very superior article. Besthorn, ten blades, best razor steel. Three-fifty, and cheap at theprice. Can't be beat this side of Boston. Just the article for you,sir."And he winked again at Dannie Snow, who was pink with suppressedmerriment."Well, now, well, now," said Solomon, taking the knife in his handand pretending to examine it closely. "That's a pretty knife, to besure,--to--be--sure. Real showy, ain't it? Looks as if 't was madeto sell--all outside and no money in the bank, like some youngfellers ye see."Dannie Snow giggling outright, Mr. Peaslee turned and gazed at himin mild inquiry. Young Potter turned a dull red. He was addicted toradiant cravats and gauzy silk handkerchiefs, and from his "salary"of eight dollars a week he did not save much.But just the same, Mr. Peaslee had been staggered at the price.Pretending still to examine the knife which Willie had given him, hesquinted past it at the contents of the glass show-case on which hiselbows rested. There all sorts of knives confronted him, each in itslittle box, in which was stuck a card stating the price,--$1.50,$1.25, 90c, 45c. The cheapest one would eat up the proceeds of threedozen eggs at fifteen cents a dozen--a good price for eggs! He hadforgotten that knives cost so much."A good knife ain't any use to a boy," he reflected. "Break it in aday, lose it in a week. 'T wouldn't be any real kindness to him.Just wastin' money."He pointed finally to a stubby, wooden-handled knife with one bigblade, marked 25c."There, now," said he, "that's what I call a knife. Good and strong,and no folderol. Guarantee the steel, don't ye?"He opened the blade and drew it speculatively across his callousedold thumb, while with his mild blue eyes, which his spectaclesenormously exaggerated, he fixed the humbled Willie."That's a good knife for the money," said that young man."Hand-forged.""Sho now, ye don't say so," said Mr. Peaslee. "I guess ye give adiscount, don't ye? Farley always allows me a little suthin'.""You can have it for twenty-one cents," said Willie, much irritated."Charge it?""Guess I better pay cash," Mr. Peaslee answered hastily. If it werecharged, his wife would question the item.Producing an enormous wallet--very worn and very flat--from hiscavernous pocket, he deliberately searched until he found aCanadian ten-cent piece, and adding to it enough to make up theprice, handed it to Potter, and left the store.Mr. Peaslee, who remembered no gift from his father other than avery occasional big copper cent, thought himself pretty generous.Had he not spent pretty nearly the price of two dozen eggs?But now a question occurred to him which he had not thought ofbefore. How was he to get the knife to Jim? A gift from him wouldexcite surprise, perhaps suspicion. It must not be known who hadsent it. Ah, there was the post office! Going in, he pushed thelittle box through the barred window."Say, Cyrus," he said to the postmaster, "kinder weigh up thisconsignment for me, will ye?"The postmaster weighed the box."That will cost you six cents," he said."Thank ye," returned Mr. Peaslee, and dropping the box into his deeppocket, departed. Half a dozen eggs more to get it to his next-doorneighbor!"'T ain't right," he muttered, "'t ain't right."Uncertain what to do with his gift, but feeling, on the whole,pretty virtuous, Mr. Peaslee now started home. He thought thatJim would not be going to school, but would wait at home for thethreatened coming of the constable; but still he was not sure,and he wanted to keep the boy under his eye.Suddenly he straightened. There was Judge Ames walking up thestreet, valise in hand, just from the early morning train. He hadcome a few days before the opening of court. Mr. Peaslee knew himslightly, and stood much in awe of him. He was greatly pleased whenthe judge stopped and shook hands with him."I am glad to hear, Mr. Peaslee," said the judge, in his precise,lawyer-like utterance, "that you are to be on the grand jury. Weneed men like you there.""Thank ye, judge, thank ye," said Mr. Peaslee, overcome. And hewalked on home, quite convinced that a person of his importance inthe community should not be sacrificed to the comfort of any smallboy."And I've done right by the little feller, I've done right," heassured himself, feeling the knife.As he turned into his own yard, he cast an anxious eye over tothe Edwards house. There sat Jim, elbows on knees, chin on hands,staring into space. Jim was thinking that his father, had he beena pirate chief, would not have wiped a filial tear from his eyewhenever he thought of his mother; and the boy's face showed it.The spectacle greatly depressed Mr. Peaslee. The smallest, faintestquestion entered his mind whether a twenty-five-cent knife wouldconsole such melancholy.To give himself a countenance while he watched events, Solomon got arake and began gathering together the few autumn leaves which hadfluttered down in his front yard. It was not useless labor, forthey would "come in handy" later in "banking up" the house.And so, presently, he saw Sam Barton, the constable, his bigshoulders rolling as he walked, advancing down the street. Mr.Peaslee expected him; nevertheless his appearance gave him adisagreeable shock. Suppose the constable had been coming for him!"Ain't arrestin' anybody down this way, be ye?" he called, with afeeble attempt at jocularity. Perhaps, after all--"Looks like it," said Barton, succinctly.Mr. Peaslee stepped to the fence. "'T aint likely they'll do muchto a leetle feller like that, I guess," he said, searching theconstable's face."Dunno," said Barton, passing on.Solomon, much concerned, leaned on his rake and watched him enterthe Edwards house. Jim had disappeared; there was some delay.Mrs. Peaslee came to the door."Arrestin' that Ed'ards boy, be they, Solomon?" she said. "Well,serve him right, _I_ say, shootin' guns off so. Like father, likeson. _I_ dunno as _'t was_ the son. I'd as soon believe it of thefather. Everybody knows Lamoury and he's been mixed up together.Some of his smugglin' tricks, prob'ly."Mrs. Peaslee had taken a violent dislike to her taciturn neighbor,and she did not care who knew it. Her shrill voice seemed to herhusband painfully loud, and, indeed, it was beginning to attract theattention of the group of children who had gathered about theEdwards gate."Sh!" hissed Solomon. "Ed'ards might hear ye. 'T would hurt us if heshould take his account out of the bank.""Humph!" exclaimed Mrs. Peaslee. "Well," she added, "you go to thehearin'. Justice is suthin', I guess."But she said no more, and with her husband and the children awaitedevents--a silent group in the silent street before the silent house.The children's eyes grew bigger and bigger with excitement. Was notJimmy Edwards going to be arrested for mur-r-rder? the horridwhisper ran. One small boy, beginning to whimper, asked if Jimmy was"going to be hung."The occasion was solemn even to the older eyes of Mr. Peaslee."S'posin' it was me," he said to himself.Presently Mr. Edwards, Jim, and the constable emerged from thehouse. Jim looked white and frightened, but was bravely trying tobear himself like a man. Mr. Edwards, his long, shaven upper lipstiff as a board, looked stern and uncompromising. Barton was as bigand good-humored as ever.He turned upon the little boys and girls, and, waving his arm,cried, "Scat!" They fell back--about ten feet. Thus the processionformed: Barton and Jim, then Mr. Edwards, and--at a barelyrespectful distance--the crowd of youngsters.Mr. Peaslee, much moved, but trying hard not to show it, thrust hisrake under the veranda with a great show of care, and joined Mr.Edwards--much to that gentleman's surprise. Solomon's heart wasthrobbing with a great resolution."I always aim to be neighborly," said he, nervously lowering hisvoice, for he was conscious of his wife, still standing on theveranda. "Thought I'd just step along, too. I cal'late mebbe you'dlike comp'ny on his bail bond," and he jerked his thumb toward Jim.It was out; he was committed, and Solomon heaved a great sigh, heknew not whether of relief or dismay. There was not indeed any riskin signing with Edwards, who was "good" for any bail that thejustice was likely to require; but what would Mrs. Peaslee say ifshe knew! He glanced apprehensively toward the house.His wife had gone in; but, evil omen! there, sitting on afence-post, was the Calico Cat. She was placidly washing her face;and as her paw twinkled past the big black spot round her right eye,she appeared, at that distance, to be greeting him with a derisivewink.Mr. Edwards, although his mouth shut tighter than ever at themention of bail, was surprised and touched. "Thank you," he said."It's kind of you to think of it."In the village, Sam ushered them into the musty law office of SquireTucker, justice of the peace. The squire was a large, fat man,clothed in rusty black, with a carelessly knotted string tie pendentbeneath a rumpled turn-down collar. He had a smooth-shaven, fatface, lighted by shrewd and kindly eyes, which gleamed at you nowthrough, now over, his glasses. When the party entered he waswriting, and merely looked up under his big eyebrows long enough towave them all to chairs.Jim sat down, with the constable behind him and his father at hisleft, and studied the man in whose hands he thought that his faterested. He watched the squire's pen go from paper to ink, ink topaper, and listened to its scratch, scratch, and to the buzz of abig fly against the dirty window-pane. Ashamed to look at any one,he looked at the lawyer's big ink-well--a great, circular affair ofmottled brown wood. It had several openings, each one with its ownlittle cork attached with a short string to the side of the stand.He had never seen one like it before.Then some one entered the room. Jim, looking sidewise, recognizedJake Hibbard, and began covertly to study his face. He knew thatthis flabby-faced, dirty man, with the little screwed-up eyes, andthe big screwed-up mouth, stained brown at the corners with tobacco,was Pete Lamoury's lawyer. Familiar for many years to hiscontemptuous young eyes, Jake now looked sinister and dangerous.What were these men going to do to him?Amid his fluttering emotions and rushing thoughts one thing onlystood fixed and clear: he would not tell on his father. Some day,when all trouble was past, he would let his father know that he knewall the time. Then he guessed his father would be sorry and ashamed.Now, since his father would not take him into his confidence, hewould not pretend he did the shooting. That would be his onlyrevenge.Finally, Squire Tucker, pushing his writing aside, ran his fingersthrough the great mass of his tumbled gray hair, and lookedquizzically at Jim over his glasses. "So this," he said, "is thehardened ruffian of whom our esteemed fellow citizen, Mr. Lamoury,complains?"And indeed Jim, although stubborn, did not seem very dangerous.The squire looked about the room."Is he represented by counsel?" he asked."No, I represent him," said Mr. Edwards."The charge against him is assault with intent to kill, I believe?"and he looked with demure inquiry at Jake Hibbard, who nodded with awrath-clouded face. Tucker was not taking the case seriously."Well, young man," said the justice to Jim, "what's yourexplanation of this?""We'll waive examination," said Mr. Edwards, briefly.The squire leaned back in his chair. "I suppose," he said, withevident reluctance, "I shall have to hold him for the grand jury.But I guess the safety of the community won't be greatly threatenedif I let him out on bail. I should think a couple of hundred woulddo. I suppose there'll be no difficulty about the bond?"The tone of the proceedings suited Mr. Peaslee well. In hisnervousness and abstraction he had backed up to the rusty, emptyiron stove at the end of the room, and stood there, with spreadcoat-tails, listening intently. On hearing the amount of bail, hegave a sigh of relief. His incautious offer had brought him nodangerous risk.Mr. Edwards, however, did not answer. Instead, consulting thejustice with a look, he turned and beckoned Jim to follow him intothe hall."James," he said, "this is the last chance I shall give you. If youconfess to me, I will see that you have proper bail. If you do not,I shall let the law take its course. You may choose."Jim was exasperated. If his father wished to be mean, let him _be_mean; at least he might drop this farce, this irritating pretense.He lost his temper."I don't care what you do!" he said fiercely. "Send me to jail ifyou want to. I guess I can stand it!""Is that all you have to say?"Jim replied with a rebellious glance."Very well," said his father. "Then we will go back." Once in theroom, he stepped to the squire's desk, and talked with him in lowtones.Then the justice turned to Jim again, a new gravity in his jollyface."Your father," he said, "refuses to go on your bond. Have you anysureties of your own to offer?""No, sir," said Jim.Mr. Peaslee was outraged. What kind of a father was this! He halfstarted forward to offer to be one of the two sureties which the lawrequired, but--no, he dare not. The second surety might prove to beany sort of worthless fellow. But Jim in jail! He had not for amoment dreamed of that. He was very indignant with Mr. Edwards.Meanwhile, Jake Hibbard was studying Mr. Edwards's face with puzzledattention. He had supposed that the lumber dealer, whom he knew tobe well-to-do, would have paid anything, signed any bond, to protecthis boy from jail. He was disconcerted. He drew his one hand acrosshis mouth nervously."Well, Mr. Barton," said Squire Tucker, "I don't see but what you'llhave to take this young man over to Hotel Calkins.""Hotel Calkins" was the name which local wit gave to the countyjail. The words sent a cold shiver down Mr. Peaslee's back. Theystung him into generosity. As Barton and his prisoner, followed byMr. Edwards and Jake, brushed by him on their way to the door, heslipped the knife into Jim's hand. When the boy, trying to keep backthe tears, looked up inquiringly, he murmured, in agitation:--"Don't ye care, sonny! Now don't ye care!"He was greatly stirred--or he would not have been so incautious asto make his present in person and in public.[Illustration: Cat lying on fence.]IVWhen Nancy Ware, Jim's pretty teacher, heard that Mr. Edwards hadlet Jim go to jail, she was hotly indignant. She liked Jim, andlaughed a little over him, for she knew he adored her. In her viewhe was a clumsy, nice boy; awkward and shy, to be sure, butrewarding her friendliness now and then with a really entrancinggrin. She liked his imagination, she liked his loyalty, and sheliked his dogged resolution.She heard the news at the noon hour on Monday, and after her dinnershe hurried at once to the store of Fred Farnsworth. To him sheroundly declared that Mr. Edwards was a brute, a view of the manwhich struck Fred as a bit highly colored.Fred was thirty-one or thirty-two years old, a sensible, humorousfellow, with considerable personal force. He was very proud of thehandsome shop over which hung the sign, "Frederick W. Farnsworth,Fine Crockery and Glassware," and still prouder of his engagement toMiss Ware. He was the second grand juryman from Ellmington."Oh," said he, "Edwards isn't a bad sort of man. He isn't verysociable. I guess he wouldn't take much impudence, even from thatboy of his. They say Jim wouldn't own up, and the old man won't doanything for him till he does.""If Jimmie Edwards says he didn't fire that gun, he didn't," saidNancy, positively. "Jimmie isn't the lying kind. I know Mr.Edwards. I ought not to call him a brute, I suppose. But he's oneof these obstinate men who will do anything they've made up theirminds to do, even if you prove to them that they're wrong, even ifit hurts them more than it does any one else. He's just got it intohis head that Jimmie ought to confess, and he'd let him go to thegallows before he'd back down."Nancy spoke with animation, her color rose and her eyes grew bright,and Fred looked and listened admiringly. He was skeptical about Jim,but he was struck with the accuracy of the portrait of Edwards."I guess that's about so," he said."And when I think of that poor boy shut up in that awful jail,locked into a cell, when he ought to be out-of-doors playing balland having a good time, it makes my blood boil!" continued MissWare. "Now, Fred," she concluded, with pretty decision, "you muststop it."Fred laughed."Isn't that a pretty large order?" he asked. "Squire Tucker put himthere. I guess it's legal.""You can do _something_," said his betrothed. "Go to see Jimmie. Seeif you can't find out what's the matter. Jimmie likes you, perhapshe'll tell.""I didn't know Jim had any particular partiality for me," said Fred,but he felt kindlier toward the boy in spite of himself."If you can only find out what really happened, I know we can gethim out," averred Miss Ware."Why don't you go yourself?" said Farnsworth."I can't,--not till five o'clock. Of course I'm going then!""That's about four hours off," said Farnsworth."But I want something done _now_!" exclaimed Nancy."Oh!" said Fred, humorously."Will you go?""Of course. I'll start at once." Fred dropped his banter. "I'll tellyou what, Nancy. I may not be able to do much right off, but I'llpromise you that he has a fair chance before the grand jury."Farnsworth started at once for the jail. It was a poor place for aboy, he reflected, as he rang the jailer's private bell. Calkinshimself was not there, and his wife came to the door. She knewFarnsworth; and when he asked if he might see Jim she laughed alittle, and told him to "step right in.""Hotel Calkins" was a brick building which looked pleasantly like aprivate dwelling, as, in fact, a good half of it was. In this fronthalf dwelt the jailer; in the rear half, separated from the livingquarters by a thick wall and heavy doors, was the jail proper. ThereFarnsworth expected to be led.But not at all! Mrs. Calkins ushered him into her own kitchen, wherea wash-tub showed what she was doing, where the afternoon sun andsweet September air poured in at the open windows, and where acanary in its cage was singing cheerily.Here Farnsworth was much surprised to see Jim, curled up in Mrs.Calkins's own rocking-chair, eating a large red-cheeked apple whichhe was dividing with a brand-new knife!"Squire Tucker told Mark," said Mrs. Calkins, enjoying the joke,"that he guessed James would like our society full as well as thatof the prisoners."As for Jim, he grinned affably, and took another slice of his apple.The awful picture which Miss Ware had drawn of Jim's dreadfulisolation and misery and her own indignant sympathy rushed uponFarnsworth's mind, and were so comically out of relation with thefacts that he sank weakly into the nearest chair and roared."This--is--the way--you go to jail--is it?" he gasped.Mrs. Calkins smiled in sympathy, and Jim, half-suspecting that heought to be offended at this frank mirth, looked sheepishly at thefloor.Farnsworth recovered himself. "A mighty good friend of yours," hesaid, "sent me over here.""Miss Ware?" asked Jim, much pleased."Yes. She's coming herself right after school, loaded down withthings to console your desolate prison life, I believe," andFarnsworth had to stop to laugh again. "But she wanted me to startright in and help you out of this, and that's what I'm here for.""Thank you," said Jim, embarrassed, but polite. But it struckFarnsworth, as he said afterward, that the boy "shied" a little."Miss Ware says," he went on, "that she doesn't believe you firedthat shot, and she wants you to tell me exactly what did happen. Nowif we can show that you didn't shoot, I can get you out of herequick.""What they going to do to me?" said Jim."That depends. It makes a difference how much Lamoury's hurt. Thepenalty might be severe if he's got a bad wound. But even then, ifwe could show that you didn't know he was there, or that the gunwent off by accident, or that you were firing at something else, itwould make a big difference. And if you can show that you weren'tthere at all--why, out you go, scot-free. But, Jim, you can seeyourself that if you don't tell what you know, everybody'll thinkthat you shot and meant to hurt Lamoury, and then it might go prettyhard with you. Now come, tell me what happened.""You'd better tell, Jimmie," said Mrs. Calkins, straightening upfrom her wash-tub. "You won't find any better friends than Mr.Farnsworth and Miss Ware."The young man, as he talked, watched the boy curiously. Jim flushedand squirmed, and looked now at the floor and now out at the window,with a marked uneasiness and embarrassment that greatly puzzled hisfriend. And when he stopped, and the boy had to answer, his distressbecame really pitiable."Can't you tell me, Jim?" Mr. Farnsworth hazarded, after a little,putting a kindly hand on the boy's arm, while Mrs. Calkins stoodquiet by her tub in friendly expectation.But Jim remained dumb.After waiting a little, Farnsworth, seeing the boy so miserable,took pity on him."Well, never mind, Jim," he said. "You needn't tell if you don'twant to."He would have to let Nancy coax it out of him. But he was puzzled,impressed with a sense of mystery and with a growing conviction thatthe boy was shielding some one else. He began to talk cheerfully ofother things, hoping that Jim might perhaps drop a useful hint, or,at least, that the boy would gain confidence in him as a friend. Bychance he asked:--"Where did you get the knife, Jim?""Mr. Peaslee gave it to me.""Peaslee!" exclaimed Farnsworth. He well knew the "closeness" of hisfellow juror."It isn't much of a knife," said Jim, apologetic but pleased. Jim'sviews of the world were changing: his father, although a banditchief, had let him go to jail, while this stingy old man, with nohalo of adventure about him, gave him a knife; and here were MissWare and Mr. Farnsworth and Mrs. Calkins and the jailer, none ofthem smugglers, who were very kind.Farnsworth rose to go. Then Jim, summoning all his courage, asked aquestion which had long been trembling on his lips."What do they do to smugglers, Mr. Farnsworth?""Fine 'em, or put 'em in jail, or both. Why?""Nothing much," said Jim, but obviously he was cast down.Farnsworth walked thoughtfully toward his store. "By George!" hethought suddenly. "I wonder--"The gossip about the senior Edwards had occurred to him, and at thesame time he remembered the quarrel with Lamoury."But what nonsense!" he thought. "If Edwards wanted to shoot any onehe wouldn't do it in his own back yard, and he wouldn't treat hisown boy that way, either." Still, the idea clung to him.And then he thought of Nancy, and chuckled. "If she comes to thestore before she goes to the jail I won't tell her what she'll findthere," he promised himself.Meanwhile, Mr. Peaslee felt a growing discomfort. He ate his dinnerand answered the brisk questions of his wife with increasingpreoccupation. Like Miss Ware, he was picturing Jim solitary andsuffering in his lonely cell. With the utmost sincerity andingenuousness he condemned Mr. Edwards."Hain't he got any feelin' for his own flesh and blood?" he askedhimself. "'T ain't right; somebody'd ought to deal with him."As he pottered about his yard after dinner, he finally workedhimself up to the point of speaking to Edwards himself.Even his righteous indignation would not have led him to thisundertaking had he known Mr. Edwards better, or realized thefather's present mood. Hurt exceedingly by Jim's lying and contemptof his wishes, hurt even more through his disappointed desire tohelp his boy, Mr. Edwards was sore and sensitive, discontented bothwith Jim and with himself. He did not want Jim in jail, he toldhimself; and the neighbors who were so uniformly assuming that hedid might better give their thoughts to matters that concerned themmore. He would get the boy out of jail quick enough if the boy wouldonly let him.As he stepped out of the house to do an errand at the barn, Mr.Peaslee hailed him over the dividing fence. Somewhat put out, Mr.Edwards nevertheless turned and walked toward his neighbor. Mr.Peaslee, leaning over the fence, began."Ed'ards," he said, reaching out an anxious, deprecatory hand,"don't ye think you're jest a leetle mite hard on that boy o'yourn--"He got no further. Edwards gave him a look that made him shiver, andcut the conversation short by turning on his heel and marchingtoward the barn."Dretful ha'sh man, dretful ha'sh!" Mr. Peaslee muttered to himself."Nice, likely boy as ever was. If I had a boy like that, I swan Iwouldn't treat him so con-sarned mean!"He turned away much shocked, and saw the Calico Cat watching himironically from the chicken-house. "Drat that cat!" said he. "Iain't goin' to stay round here--not with that beast grinning at me."He got his hat and started up-town, not knowing in the least what heintended to do there. He stopped, however, at every shop window andstudied baseballs, bats, tivoli-boards, accordions. He was beginningto wonder if a twenty-five-cent knife was enough to console Jim forhis unmerited incarceration.He was gazing forlornly in at the window of Upham's drugstore, wheresome half-dozen harmonicas were displayed, and wondering if Jimwould be allowed to play one in his dungeon cell, when Hibbardspoke to him.He drew the lawyer aside, and, peering closely into his face withanxious eyes exaggerated by his spectacles, said insinuatingly:--"Jest 'twixt you and me kinder confidential, Pete ain't hurt bad,is he? You don't mind sayin', do ye?"Jake drew himself up, surprised and suspicious. Did the old foolthink him as innocent as all that?"He's hurt bad, Mr. Peaslee, bad," he said, with dignity. "Ofcourse it isn't fatal--unless it should mortify." He waved hishand deprecatingly. "I can't imagine what that Edwards boy usedin his gun."Mr. Peaslee knew: the marble! He trembled. Still, he knew Jake'sreputation. A shrewd thought visited his troubled mind."What doctor's seein' him?" he asked."Doctor!" exclaimed Hibbard, irritated. "Doctor! You know theseFrench Canadians. They're worse scared of a doctor than of theevil one himself. Pete's usin' some old woman's stuff on hiswounds,--bear's grease, rattlesnake oil, catnip tea,--what do Iknow? I can't make him see a doctor.""Some doctor'll have to testify to court, won't they?" persistedMr. Peaslee."Oh, I'll look out for that, don't you fear!" the lawyer saideasily; but nevertheless he made a pretext for leaving the old man.Perhaps had Mr. Peaslee's fears not been so keen, he would havetaken some comfort from this conversation; but as it was he feltthat the lawyer was dangerous; he feared that Pete really was badlyhurt. It would go hard, then, with Jim. It would, by the sametoken, go hard with himself should he confess.Suddenly he turned and rushed into Upham's store."Upham," said he, "I want _that_!"And he pointed straight at a big harmonica with a strange andwonderful "harp attachment"--bright-colored and of amazingpossibilities.Upham, a neat little gentleman with nicely trimmed side-whiskers,who was always fluttered by the unexpected, hesitated, half openedhis mouth, and then forgot either to shut it or to speak."Why, Mr. Peaslee," he stammered at last, "it's real expensive!You--it's two dollars and seventy-five cents.""Don't care nothin' what it costs," said Mr. Peaslee, who was in ahurry for fear lest he should think twice.When he came out of the store with the harmonica in his hands, healmost stumbled into Miss Ware. She was on her way to Jim, and, ofcourse, her mind was full of his affairs. Here was Mr. Edwards'snext neighbor. She impulsively stopped to ask if the misguidedfather still held to his resolution about Jim.Mr. Peaslee had reason to know that he did, and said so. "I tellye, Miss Ware," said he, with much emotion, "he belongs to astony-hearted generation, and that's a fact. He ain't got anycompassion in him, seems though.""It's a shame, a perfect shame!" exclaimed Nancy."'T ain't right," said Mr. Peaslee, with a warmth which surprisedthe young woman, and made her warm to this old man, whom she hadalways thought so selfish. "'T ain't right--your own flesh and bloodso.""Well," said Miss Ware, "I'm going to the jail now. I want to seeJimmie. It must be awful there.""Well, now, that's real kind of ye," responded Mr. Peaslee. "Iwonder now if you'd mind taking this along to him," and he offeredher the paper parcel. "It's a harmonica, I guess they call it. It'sreal handsome. It cost consid'able--a pretty consid'able sum. I feelkinder sorry for the leetle feller, and I don't grudge it a mite."And he kept repeating, in a tone which suggested whistling to keepyour courage up, "Not a mite, not a mite."Miss Ware smothered a laugh on hearing what the present was. Shemust not hurt the feelings of this kind old man!"Oh," said the little hypocrite, "that's nice! Jimmie'll be sopleased."But perhaps the harmonica pleased Jim as much as the schoolbookswhich the school-teacher, with a solicitous eye on her pupil'sstanding in his studies, was taking to him. Saying good-by to Mr.Peaslee, Miss Ware, books and harmonica in hand, went on her way tovisit the afflicted boy in his dungeon. Meanwhile Jim, turning thewringer for Mrs. Calkins, and listening to her stories of "Mark's"prowess with all sorts of malefactors, was having an excellent time.He had decided to be a sheriff when he grew up.[Illustration: Cat curled up on floor.]VThe day of the assembling of the grand jury for the September termof the Adams County court finally dawned. How Mr. Peaslee had lookedforward to that day! How often had he pictured the scene--the bustleabout the court house; the agreeable crowd of black-coated lawyers,with their clever talk, their good stories; the grave judge, and thestill graver side judges; the greetings and hand-shakings amid muchjoking and laughter; the county gossip among the grand jurors in theinformal moments before they filed into the courtroom to be swornand to receive the judge's charge; himself, finally, in his bestblack coat and cherished beaver hat, there in the midst ofit--important, weighty, respected, a public man!He had cherished the vision of himself walking up the village streeton that first morning, a dignitary returning the cordial andadmiring salutes of his village friends. He had seen himself laterin the jury-room, shrewdly "leading" the reluctant witness,delivering weighty opinions on the bearing of testimony, and makingall respect him as a marvel of conservatism, dignity, and wisdom.This was to be one of the most important and pleasurable days of hislife, the rung in a ladder of preferment which reached as high asthe state-house dome!And when that day came, it rained; steadily, gloomily, fiercelyrained. Solomon was not allowed to wear his best clothes. When,peering out of the window, he hopefully said he "guessed mebbe 'twas goin' to clear," his wife invited him tartly to "wait till itdid."She insisted that he put on his every-day clothes, and thus arrayed,and without meeting a single villager to realize the importance ofhis errand, he waded up to the court house, the pelting rainrattling on his old umbrella, the fierce wind almost wrenching itinside out.There was, of course, no parade on the courthouse steps for thebenefit of a wondering village, as there would have been had the daybeen fine. Instead, the men, steaming with wet, stood aboutuncomfortably in the corridors, muddy with the mud from their feet,wet with the drip from their umbrellas. The air in the court housewas close, and every one felt uncomfortable and depressed.Mr. Peaslee, having greeted three or four men whom he knew, foundhimself jammed into a corner behind four or five jurors who werestrangers to him, but he was too disheartened to try to scrapeacquaintance with them. He felt lonely and helpless.He looked enviously over to the other end of the corridor, whereFred Farnsworth, Eben Sampson, and Albion Small were standingtogether. In contrast with the others, these men were laughing.Albion was "consid'able of a joker," Mr. Peaslee reflected gloomily.Then old Abijah Keith stormed in, and in his high, shrill voicebegan immediately to utter his unfavorable opinion of everything andeverybody."Well, if he ain't here again!" exclaimed, in disgust, HiramHopkins, one of the men in front of Solomon. "Cantankerest oldlummux in the whole state--just lots on upsetting things. Abijah!"he snorted. "Can't Abijah, I call him!"Mr. Peaslee shrank back into his corner nervously. He knew this oldtyrant and dreaded him.Not much was done that first day. The clerk swore them; the judgecharged them, and appointed the sensible, steady Sampson foreman.Then they retired to the jury-room--a big, desolate place, whereinwas a long, ink-spattered table surrounded by wooden armchairs andspittoons. The grand jurors seated themselves, and were solemnlysilent while John Paige, the state's attorney, began the dull taskof presenting cases. Mr. Peaslee found that he had nothing brilliantto say.As a matter of fact, his own troubles were making him see everythingyellow. The jurymen did not seem to him as agreeable a lot as he hadexpected, and as for Paige, he irritated Solomon beyond measure.Paige was an able young man and a good lawyer, and was entitled tothe position which he had attained so young; but, the son of a manof rather exceptional means, he had been educated at a city college,and had a sophistication which Solomon viewed with deep suspicion.Moreover, he discarded the garb which Mr. Peaslee regarded assacred. He was not in black. Instead, he wore a light gray businesssuit, his collar was very knowing in cut, and his cravat of darkblue was caught with a gold pin."Citified smart Aleck," was Mr. Peaslee's characterization. To tellthe truth, he mistrusted the man's ability, and was afraid of him.If that fellow knew, Mr. Peaslee felt that it would go hard withhim. Generally, Paige was popular.Solomon had, of course, been painfully awake to every hint andintimation in regard to Jim's case. He had seen Jake Hibbard, thatcarrion crow of the law, loafing about the corridors, and the sighthad made him shiver. He had next heard that Jim's case would bequickly called,--probably on the next day,--news producing a complexemotion, the elements of which he could not distinguish.Furthermore, a remark or so which he overheard indicated that theout-of-town men were inclined to take a harsh view of the matter.And reflecting on all these things, he paddled home through thedepressing wet.And the next day it rained.More and more perturbed, as the climax approached, Mr. Peaslee tookhis place in the jury-room, and sat there with unhearing ears. Hesat and thought and delivered battle with his conscience, which wasgrowing painfully vigorous and aggressive. But, after all, perhapsthey would not find a true bill, and then Jim would go free, and hecould breathe again. Mr. Peaslee clung to the hope, and hugged it.It was the one thing which gave him courage."Gentlemen of the grand jury," suddenly he heard Paige saying, "thenext case for you to consider is that of James Edwards, agedfifteen, of Ellmington, charged with assault, with intent to kill,upon one Peter Lamoury, also of Ellmington."And he proceeded to read the complaint, which, in spite of themonotonous rapidity with which he rattled it off, scared Mr. Peasleebadly with its solemn-sounding legal phraseology."Gentlemen," said Paige, laying down the paper, "there was noeyewitness to the actual assault; and only three people have anypersonal knowledge of the event--Mr. Edwards, the defendant'sfather, the accused himself, and the complainant. Mr. Lamoury, hiscounsel tells me, is in no condition to appear. But I have here,"lifting a paper, "his affidavit, properly executed, giving hisversion of the matter. The boy's father, however, is at hand.Probably the jury would like to question him.""It seems to me," said Mr. Sampson, "that Mr. Edwards would bepretty apt to know the rights of it, if he's willing to talk. Iguess we'd better hear him."The state's attorney stepped to the door."This way, please!" he called, and Mr. Edwards entered the room.Farnsworth and Peaslee both studied the man's face closely,although for very different reasons, and both found it sternlyuncompromising."Please take a chair, Mr. Edwards," said Paige, and in a swiftglance rapidly estimated the man. "Here's some one who won't lie,"he thought, impressed."Now," he resumed, "will you kindly tell the members of the grandjury what you know of the case?"Mr. Edwards cleared his throat painfully. Determined as he was tolet his rebellious boy take whatever punishment his mistaken coursemight bring, he now began to wish that the punishment would belight. His confidence that Jim needed only to be pushed a little toconfess was somewhat shaken, and the charge was really serious. Hefelt a desire to explain, to palliate, to minimize."Gentlemen," he said, "my boy's always been a good boy. I can'tbelieve that he meant to hurt Lamoury or any one else. It must havebeen some accident--""Facts, please," said Paige, crisply.Mr. Peaslee caught his breath indignantly. He had been entirely insympathy with Mr. Edwards's soft mode of approaching his story.Paige seemed to him unfeeling."I will answer any questions," said Mr. Edwards, stiffening."Did you hear any shot fired?" began Paige."Yes.""Where were you?""I was asleep in the room above Jim's.""Was Jim in his room?""I suppose so.""You suppose so. Don't you know?""No, I don't know.""But to the best of your knowledge and belief he was there?""Yes.""And the shot waked you?""Yes.""What did you do on hearing the shot?""I jumped to the window.""Tell what you saw, please.""I saw a man fall in the orchard, and hurried out to see if he washurt. But he was gone when I got there.""Then what?""I went to speak to Jim.""He was in his room, then, immediately after the shot?""Yes.""Ah! And when you spoke to him, did he admit firing the shot?""No.""Did he deny it?""Yes.""Where was his gun?""In the rack over the mantel.""In the rack over the mantel," repeated Paige, slowly, glancing atthe jurors. "Did you examine it?""Yes.""What was its condition? Did it show that it had been fired?""No; it was clean.""It was clean," repeated Paige. "I understand that it was adouble-barreled, muzzle-loading shotgun. Were there any rags about?""Yes.""Where were they?""One was in the ashes of the fireplace.""Look as if some one had tried to hide it?""Yes"--reluctantly."If it was that sort of gun, there must have been a shot-pouch andpowder-flask. Where were they?""In the drawer where Jim keeps them.""Everything looked, then, as if no shot had been fired?""Yes.""Was there any one besides yourself and your son in the house?""No.""Your housekeeper?""She had stepped out.""To the best of your knowledge, then, there was no one about to firethe shot except your son?""No.""That will do," said Paige, with an accent of finality. "That is,"he added, with the air of one who observes a courteous form, "unlesssome of the grand jurors wish to ask a question."There were various things which were new to Mr. Peaslee in thistestimony. He had supposed that Jim had been picked as the guiltyperson by a process of mere exclusion; he had had no idea that thecase against him was so strong. How had the boy got to the room sosoon after he himself had left, and why had he gone there? And why,why had he cleaned the shotgun? The grand jury must believe in hisguilt. And when the case came to trial, what could Jim say to clearhimself? It was going hard, hard with the boy.Mr. Peaslee's mouth grew dry, his palms moist; he moved uneasily inhis chair. Once or twice he felt sure that the next instant he wouldfind himself on his feet, but the minutes passed and he still wasseated.And Farnsworth, anxious, for the sake of his betrothed, Miss Ware,to help Jim, was nonplussed. There were two possible explanationsof Jim's cleaning the gun, if he did clean it: the first, that Jimwas protecting himself; the second, that he was shielding some oneelse.But the second theory seemed quite untenable. Farnsworth had madesome cautious but well-directed inquiries about Mr. Edwards, and hadsatisfied himself that the rumors about his smuggling were nothingbut malicious gossip. There was not a man of greater honesty in thestate. The boy must have done the shooting. Miss Ware would have togive it up. Still, he would hazard a question."Mr. Edwards," he said, "Lamoury worked for you once, didn't he?""Yes.""You quarreled, didn't you?""I discharged him for intemperance.""There was no bad blood?""Lamoury was angry, I believe."Farnsworth stopped; there was nothing to be gained by this course ofquestioning in the way of clearing Jim. Of course later, the pointthat Lamoury had a grudge against the family might have importance,although he could not see just how. Some one else surely heard thatgunshot. It was incredible that the neighborhood should be sodeserted. If only there were another witness!The other jurors had no questions. They were, to tell the truth, alittle impatient. It was near the dinner-hour, and they were hungry.The case seemed perfectly plain to them. It was not likely, theyargued, that the boy's father could be mistaken."You may go," said Paige to Mr. Edwards."I don't see," he began, when the witness had left the room, "anyneed for our going further into this case. Whatever we may think ofthe animus of the complainant,--I take it that was what you wishedto bring out, Mr. Farnsworth,--there seems to be no question butthat the boy fired the shot. The presumption seems strong also thathe intended to hit. Were there any accident or any good excuse, theboy could, of course, have no motive not to tell it. I suggest thata true bill be found at once, and that we proceed to more importantmatters. I want to remind you that we have a great deal of workbefore us.""Well, gentlemen," said Sampson, "I guess we're pretty much of amind about this. If no one has any objections, I guess we'll call ita vote." He looked round."As we're all agreed--" he began."Just a moment, Sampson!" suddenly exclaimed Farnsworth. It had justthen flashed over him that Mr. Peaslee, the kind Mr. Peaslee, whogave Jim knives and harmonicas, was next-door neighbor to theEdwardses. If he had been at home when the shot was fired, he musthave heard it, and he might have seen some significant thing whichquestioning might bring out. Of course, if Peaslee had seenanything, he would have spoken, but he might have overlooked theimportance of some fact or other."Just a moment, Sampson!" he said, and put up his hand. Then heswung sharply in his chair and put the question:--"Peaslee, where were you when that shot was fired?"[Illustration: Cat standing alert facing forward.]VI"Peaslee, where were you when that shot was fired?" askedFarnsworth, and as he spoke he turned and looked toward Solomon,whose seat was some three or four places to his left, on the sameside of the table.Had the question not been uttered, it would have died upon hislips, so much surprised was he at what he saw.Mr. Peaslee, white and trembling with some strong emotion, had hishands upon the table and was raising himself, slowly and painfully,to his feet. He rolled his eyes, which looked bigger and morepathetic than ever behind his glasses, toward Farnsworth at thesound of his voice, but the young man knew instinctively thatSolomon, moved by some strong idea of his own, had not grasped thequestion."Gentlemen," Mr. Peaslee began, in shaky tones, "I guess I got aword to say afore ye find a true bill agin that little feller. He'sas peaceable a boy as ever I saw, and I guess I can't let him stayall bolted and barred into no jail, when it don't need anythin' butmy say-so to get him out. Ye see, gentlemen,"--Solomon paused,moistened his dry mouth, and cast a timorous look over the puzzledfaces of the jurymen,--"ye see, 't was me that shot Lamoury."Not a sound came from the grand jury; the members sat and stared athim in blank wonder, hardly able to credit their ears. Paige, thestate's attorney, who was making some notes at the time, held hispen for a good half-minute part way between his paper and theinkstand while he gazed in astonishment at Peaslee. To have a grandjuror, a sober, respectable man, rise in the jury-room and confessthat he is the real offender in a case under consideration, is notusual. The surprise was absolute.For Farnsworth, it was more than a surprise; it was a relief. Thenhis betrothed had been right; Jim had not fired the shot! He felt aglow of admiration for Nancy's sure intuition and loyalty to herpupil. He rejoiced that Jim was cleared for her sake and for theboy's. Insensibly he had grown more and more interested in Jim andattached to him. Now--everything was explained.Everything? No, Jim's strange activity in concealing the evidencesof the shot, his queer reserve when questioned as to what heknew--these seemed more perplexing than ever.Farnsworth, hoping for light upon these points, settled back in hischair to listen. Mr. Peaslee had more to say."It kinder goes agin the grain," Solomon resumed, with a weary,deprecatory smile, "to own up you've been actin' like a fool, but Iguess I got to do it."This was the way on 't: I stepped over to Ed'ards's jest to talkover matters and things. Well, I couldn't seem to raise anybody tothe front of the house, so I kinder slid into the boy's room to seeif there wasn't somebody out back. There wa'n't. There didn't seemto be anybody to home."Now, gentlemen, seems as though you'd see how 't was when Itell ye. There's an old white and yaller cat, with a kindersassy patch over her eye,"--Mr. Peaslee's meek voice heretook on a trace of heat,--"that's been a-pesterin' the lifeout o' me goin' on a year. I guess ye know how 't is--one ofthem pesky, yowlin', chicken-stealin', rusty old nuisancesthat hain't any sociability to 'em, anyhow."Well, there she was a-settin', comfortable as a hot punkin pie, andlookin' as if she owned the place. And there was the boy's gun rightthere handy. The cat riled me so, I jest loaded her up. 'T wa'n't inhuman natur' not to, now was it? 'T wa'n't nothin' but bird shot, soI sorter stuck in a marble. It couldn't do no harm, and it mightkinder help a leetle. And I just fired her off. I didn't expect tohit any French Canadian; I didn't know there was any of the crittersround."Then when I see a feller fall out of the bushes I was scared, now Itell ye. Here I was, member of the grand jury, and everything, andit didn't somehow seem right and fittin' for no member of the grandjury to be fillin' up a feller human bein' with bird shot an'marbles. I guess I didn't think much what I was a-doin' of, no-how.'T any rate, I jest sneaked off home, and then I jest let thingsslip along and slide along till here I be. I guess if a true bill'sgot to be found agin any one, it's got to be found agin me."And Mr. Peaslee sank huddled and hopeless into his chair.His fellow members were for a moment silent. But soon this tale of acat, bird shot, and an unexpected Canadian began to disclose a comicaspect; the plight of poor, respectable Mr. Peaslee, in all thefresh honors of his jurorship, began to show a ludicrous side; theirown position as grave men seeing what they thought a serious offensechange, as by magic, into a farcical accident, bit by bit revealedits humor.Sampson, the foreman, glanced at Paige, the state's attorney. Theyoung man's face wore an odd expression. Their eyes met, andSampson's mouth began to twitch. Albion Small, who was "consid'ableof a joker," suddenly choked. Farnsworth, having revealed to him ina flash the significance of the harmonica "with harp attachment,"gave way and laughed outright.Smiles appeared on faces all round the table; and as the comicalityof the whole affair more and more struck upon their astonishedminds, the smiles became a general laugh, the laugh a roar. Andthis mirth had so good-humored a note that Solomon, taking heart,looked about the table with a sheepish grin.But his heart sank and his grin vanished when his eyes fell uponAbijah Keith. For Abijah did not smile. He sat grim as fate, sterndisapproval of all this levity expressed in every deep fold of hiswrinkled old countenance.A formidable person was Abijah. He had a great brush of white hair,which stood up fiercely from his narrow forehead; a high, archednose like the beak of a hawk, on which rested a pair of huge roundspectacles; a mouth like a straight line inclosed between a greatparenthesis of leathery wrinkles. Up from under his old-fashionedstock, round a chin like a paving-stone, curled an aggressive,white, wiry beard, and his blue eyes were steel-bright and hard."Can't see what you're cackling so for!" he exclaimed, his shrillaccents full of contempt. "Actin' like a passel of hens! There's aman shot, ain't they? Somebody shot him, didn't they? He"--andAbijah pointed a knotted, skinny, hard old finger at the shrinkingSolomon--"he shot him, didn't he? Ser'us business, _I_ call it.Guess the grand jury's got suthin' to say to it, hain't they? Cat?Cat's foot, _I_ say. Likely story, likely story. Don't believe aword on 't."Solomon dared to steal a look, and was not reassured to see in thejurymen's faces doubt replacing mirth. Then Hiram Hopkins's heartyvoice, ringing with opposition, struck upon his delighted ear. Heremembered Hiram's dislike for the cantankerous Keith. Here perhapswas a defender."Oh, come, Mr. Keith! Oh, come now!" he heard Hopkins exclaim."What's the use of raising a rumpus? It wasn't nothing but birdshot. Folks don't go murdering folks with bird shot.""Don't care if 't was bird shot!" came Abijah's snapping tones."Don't care if 't was pin-heads; principle's the same.""It is, it is!" admitted Solomon, in his soul."Well," said Hiram, with a common sense in which Mr. Peaslee tookcomfort, "the practical effect is mighty different. Gentlemen," headded to the jurors, "I can't see that we've got any call to go anyfurther with this. Peaslee was just shooting at a cat. I don't seethe sense of taking up the time of the court and makin' expense forany such foolishness. I say we'd better dismiss young Edwards'scase, and Peaslee's along with it. It's such fool doings, I thinkwe'd better, if only to keep folks from laughing at the grand jury."Solomon's heart was in his mouth. Would the others take thisview--or Keith's?"Oily talk, dretful oily talk!" came Abijah's fierce pipe. "Don'ttake any stock in 't. Shot him, didn't he? Grand juror--whatdifference does that make? If they ain't fit, weed 'em out--weed 'emout!""Fit?" said Hiram. "It took some spunk to get up there and tell justwhat a fool he'd been, didn't--""Humph!" Abijah interrupted, with a snort. "Had to, didn't he?Farnsworth asked him where he was, didn't he? Had to squirm outsomehow, didn't he? Got about as much spine as a taller candle withthe wick drawed out, accordin' to his own showin'. Better weed himout, better weed him out! Humph!"Poor Mr. Peaslee sank still lower in his chair; his head fell stilllower on his chest. They were taking away from him even the creditof voluntary confession. Why had Farnsworth asked that question? Incasting doubt upon his one brave deed fate seemed to him to havedone its worst."He'd got up before I put the question," said Farnsworth.He wished to be just. But he was indignant with Peaslee. After hisfirst laughter, his thoughts had dwelt upon the trouble that Solomonhad brought upon the innocent Jim, "just to save his own hide, theold--skee-zicks!" he exclaimed to himself.After all, what did he know about Peaslee? If the man had merelyshot at a cat, why under the sun should he not have said so atonce, and saved all this bother? The more he thought, the moreindignant he grew--and the more doubtful. He did not notice at allthe look of timid gratitude which Mr. Peaslee cast in his direction."Course he was up before you spoke!" Solomon was further gratifiedto hear Hopkins declare, in his big, hearty voice. "And I think aman who owns up fair and square just when it's hardest to has gotspine enough to hold him together, anyhow.""Up before ye asked him!" Abijah turned on Farnsworth. "Up for what?Tell me that, will ye?"And Solomon, listening anxiously for Farnsworth's answer, wasdepressed to hear him give merely a good-humored laugh at UncleAbijah's thrust."Mr. Peaslee," asked Sampson, so unexpectedly that Solomon jumped,"didn't you say something about a marble?""Yes," said Mr. Peaslee, gloomily."Fit the bore, did it?" continued the foreman."Slick," answered Mr. Peaslee, with the brevity of despair."If that marble fitted the bore," said Albion Small, while Sampsonnodded assent, "it's my opinion it might do considerable damage."His opinion had weight, for Small was a hunter of repute. Recoveredfrom their amusement, the grand jurors had become graduallyimpressed with the idea that Mr. Peaslee's confession still leftsome awkward questions unanswered. If the matter were so simple ashe said, why had he kept silent so long?The jurymen came from all over the rather large county, and althoughthey all had some knowledge of the principal men of Ellmington, andalthough such of them as had dealings at its bank had met Mr.Peaslee, none of them knew him well. He was a newcomer at thevillage, and when at his farm had not had a wide acquaintance.They looked to Farnsworth as his fellow townsman to speak for him;but Farnsworth said nothing, and seemed preoccupied and doubtful.The inference was that he shared their perplexity. They felt thatKeith, for all his "cantankerousness," might be right. Solomon coulddraw no comfort from their faces.All this while Paige had been playing with his watch-chain andwatching Abijah, whose character he appreciated, with discreetamusement; but he found himself in essential agreement with thepeppery old fellow."Ask the state's attorney, why don't ye?" put in Keith, impatiently."He'll tell ye I've got the rights on 't. Ain't afraid, be ye?"Sampson smiled. "Mr. State's Attorney," he said, turning to Paige,"I guess perhaps you'd better give us the law of this.""Well, gentlemen," said Paige, "as a matter of law, Mr. Keith wouldseem to be right," and at the word Solomon's spirits sank to newdepths."Didn't I tell ye?" said Abijah, triumphantly.Had the state's attorney said that he was wrong, the old man wouldhave called him a popinjay to his face. Abijah's exclamation was notdeference to legal knowledge; it was merely quick seizure of atactical point."Lamoury was shot," Paige went on, with a little smile at Keith'sinterruption, "and by his own statement, Mr. Peaslee shot him. Onhis own admission, his gun was dangerously loaded. Although a boy, aneighbor's son, was charged, through his act, with a serious offenseagainst the laws, he made no confession. And when, at last, he didspeak, it is at least open to debate whether he did it of his ownvolition, or because he was forced to do so by the embarrassingquestion put to him by one of your number. I don't impugn hisveracity, but I am bound to remark that he is an interestedwitness. All this is a question of fact for you to consider."I think you should know a little more. To determine if there wasany motive, you need to know if there was any bad blood between Mr.Peaslee and Lamoury; to find an indictment to fit the case you needto know how badly Lamoury is hurt. I think you should have Lamouryhere. Cross-questioning him, and perhaps Mr. Peaslee,"--Solomonshivered,--"should establish whether the shot was accidental, as theaccused says, or intentional, as Lamoury contends. I'll have thecomplainant here to-morrow, if it's a possible thing. As there's noformal charge--as yet--against Mr. Peaslee, I think you may properlypostpone until then the question of entering a complaint or makingan arrest, if necessary,"--Solomon shivered again,--"and of hisproper holding for appearance before the court. Meanwhile, Isuggest that you dispose of the case against young Edwards, andthen adjourn. Mr. Peaslee," he added significantly, "will of coursebe present to-morrow morning.""Sartain, sartain," answered poor Solomon, tremulously.It was already late, and when the grand jury had formally dismissedthe complaint against Jim, the hour was so advanced that adjournmentwas taken for the day. When Mr. Peaslee left the court house no onespoke to him, and he walked slowly home, full of the worstforebodings.Why had he put in that marble? Relieved of his burden of anxietyand remorse in regard to Jim, he began to think more definitely thanhe had done heretofore of the possibility of serious harm toLamoury. It was dreadful to think that he might have badly woundedan inoffensive man. Was Lamoury much hurt? What would happen to amarble in a shotgun, anyhow? Would he be arrested? Would his caseget to trial? Could he, without a single witness, prove that it wasan accident? The sinister figure of Jake Hibbard rose before him,and made him feel helpless and frightened. The future looked black."But I done right," he tried to console himself by saying. "I doneright."Better late than never, to be sure; but if genuine comfort in a gooddeed is sought, it is best to act at once. Mr. Peaslee could feelbut small satisfaction in his tardy confession.Moreover, he must now face his wife. As he turned with reluctantfeet into his own yard he fairly shrank in anticipation under thesharp hail of her biting words.To postpone a little the inevitable, to gather strength somewhat tomeet the shock, he passed the kitchen porch and went on toward thebarn. Seating himself upon an upturned pail, he stayed there a longwhile, still as a statue, while he chewed the cud of bitterreflection.After a while, at the barn door there was a familiar flash of whiteand yellow. Looking wearily up he saw the great, green eyes of theCalico Cat fastened upon him in fierce distrust. She had one footuplifted as if she did not know whether it was safe to put it down,and in her mouth, pendent, was a Calico Kitten.Mr. Peaslee, silent and immovable, watched her with apathetic eyes.Finally, as if assured he was not dangerous, she put down her footand disappeared with soft and cushioned tread into the dim recessesof the barn. Yet a little while and she again appeared in thedoorway with a second duplicate of herself. Again an interval, andshe brought a third."Well," said Solomon to himself, his spirit quite crushed, "I guessshe ain't bringing no more than belong to me by rights."Nevertheless, he could not endure to see any others. He wentdesperately into the house, where he found his wife fuming overhis delay."I guess I may as well tell ye, first as last," he said, in a sortof stubborn despair. "'T was me that shot Lamoury.""You!" exclaimed his wife, dropping her knife and fork, and lookingat him as if she thought he had taken leave of his senses."I guess I'm the feller," he averred, with queer, pathetic humor.And turning a patient, rounded back to his wife's expectedindignation, he told his story while he nervously washed at thesink, and fumblingly dried his face and hands in the coarse rollertowel. He made these operations last as long as his confession.Then, at an end of his resources, he turned to face the storm.Mrs. Peaslee simply looked at him. She struggled to speak, but shefound herself in the predicament of one who has used up allammunition on the skirmish-line, and comes helpless to the battle.She simply could think of nothing adequate to say.She stared at her husband while he stared out of the window.Then she gave it up."Draw up your chair!" she said sharply. "I guess ye got to eat,whatever ye be!"[Illustration: HE TURNED TO FACE THE STORM][Illustration: Cat drinking from saucer.]VIIWhen the grand jury dispersed after Mr. Peaslee's confession,Farnsworth, first speaking a few words to Paige, the state'sattorney, hurried toward the Union School. As he expected, hemet Miss Ware coming from it on her way to her boarding-house.He waved his hat, and called:--"Jim's free!"As he reached her side he added, "He didn't fire the shot at all.""Of course he didn't!" cried Nancy, triumphantly. "Didn't I tellyou? But who did, and how did you find out?""Peaslee," said Farnsworth. "He owned up.""Mr. Peaslee! Then that awful harmonica--Why, the wretch!""Sh!" warned Farnsworth. "Not so loud! These are jury-room secretswhich I'm not supposed to tell."But he told them, nevertheless. As the two walked along together,he gave her an account of all that had happened."But what I don't understand," he concluded, "is what made Jimbehave so. What did he clean his gun for? Why did he hide the ragsand put away the ammunition? He acted just as if he were trying toshield some one. We know he wasn't trying to shield himself, and Idon't see why he should shield Peaslee.""Fred!" said Nancy, stopping and facing him. "Jim knew that hisfather was the only person in the house, didn't he?""Yes," said Farnsworth."Then he thought his father did it!""O pshaw!" exclaimed Farnsworth. "He couldn't!""Don't be rude, Fred!" admonished Nancy. "Wasn't I right before?Well, I'm right now. How could he have thought anything else? I'mgoing straight to the jail and find out. And can we get him awayfrom that jail?""Yes," said Farnsworth. "I spoke to Paige. He said he'd bring theboy in and have him discharged this afternoon. He has to appearbefore the judge, you know, before he can be let go.""That's nice," said Nancy. "Now, Fred, you go straight to Mr.Edwards and bring him up there, too. I don't suppose any one'sthought to tell him.""But I haven't had any dinner," objected Farnsworth."Dinner!" exclaimed Miss Ware, in deep scorn, and Farnsworth laughedand surrendered.They separated then. Miss Ware took the side street to the jail,while Farnsworth hurried along toward Edwards's house."Mr. Edwards," he said, when that gentleman appeared at the door,"Miss Ware wants you right away at the jail," and as he spoke hewas struck with the strain which showed in the man's face. "He musthave felt it a good deal," he reflected, with surprise.A sudden fear showed in Mr. Edwards's eyes."Jim isn't sick, is he?" he asked."Oh, no!" replied Farnsworth, hastily. "He's cleared, that's all.We'll have him out of jail this afternoon.""Cleared?" repeated Mr. Edwards, distrustfully. Was Farnsworthjoking? Nothing was more certain in the father's mind than that Jimhad fired the shot. No other supposition was possible. His facegrew severe at the thought that Farnsworth was trifling with him."Yes, cleared!" said the young man, somewhat nettled. "We haveabsolute, certain proof that Jim hadn't anything to do with it.""I should like to hear it," said Mr. Edwards, coldly."Well, we have the real offender's own confession," said Farnsworth,irritated at the incredulity of the man. What was the fellow madeof?Mr. Edwards said nothing. He turned and got his hat, and walked withFarnsworth up the street the half-mile to the jail. His face wasimpassive, but his movements had a new alertness, and Farnsworthnoted that he had to walk painfully fast to keep up with this mucholder man.Edwards, in spite of his cold exterior, was a man of strong feeling,and there was, in fact, a deep joy and a deep regret at his heart.He knew with thankfulness that he had a truthful and courageous son.He saw with passionate self-reproach that he had done the boy agreat injustice. But why, why had Jim cleaned the gun?Farnsworth, little guessing the turmoil in the heart of the graveman by his side, was wondering if, after all, Miss Ware could beright in thinking that Jim had sacrificed himself for this unfeelingparent."If she is right," he reflected, thinking how harsh had been thefather's treatment of the boy, "what a little brick Jim is!"He had a very human desire to present this view and prick thisautomaton into some show of life."Mr. Edwards," he said suddenly, "Jim knew, didn't he, that you werethe only person besides himself at home?""I suppose so.""Does it occur to you that he may have thought you did theshooting?""That can't be so," said Mr. Edwards; but there was a note ofshocked concern, of dismay, in his tone which satisfied Farnsworth,and again he thought more kindly of his companion.And Mr. Edwards was stirred by the unexpected question. After all,he thought, since Jim was not trying to shield himself, whom elsecould he wish to shield? And a sudden deep enthusiasm filled him forthis son who was not only courageous and truthful, but who, inspite of his unjust treatment, was loyal, who--he thrilled at theword--loved him! But no, it was not possible! How could his son havethought that he could accuse his boy of what he had done himself?And upon this doubt, he found himself with a quickened pulse at thedoor of the jail. Farnsworth rang the bell. Soon they stood in Mrs.Calkins's sitting-room, facing Jim and Nancy. And then Miss Warecaught Farnsworth by the arm and drew him quickly into the hall, andshut the door behind her."I'm certain!" she whispered, breathlessly. "When I told Jim first,he wasn't glad at all, until I managed to let him know his fatherwasn't arrested. O Fred, that boy's a little trump!"Meanwhile, in Mrs. Calkins's sitting-room, father and son faced eachother, and it would be hard to say which of the two was the moreembarrassed.But certain questions burned on Mr. Edwards's lips."Jim," he said, with anxious emotion, "did you think that _I_ shotLamoury?""Yes, sir," said Jim."But why, my boy, why should I want to shoot him?""Lamoury had been telling," said Jim, highly embarrassed."Telling?" said his father, in perplexity."Yes, sir," said Jim, "you know--about your being a--a smuggler."Much astonished, Mr. Edwards pushed his questions, and soon came toknow the depth and breadth of his boy's misconception."Then," he said finally, "when I accused you of having fired theshot, you thought I had to do so to avoid an arrest which would beserious for me. Is that it?""Yes, sir."Mr. Edwards could not speak for a moment for emotion. Then he drewthe boy to him."My son, my son," he said, "you and I must know each other better."And by the same token, Jim realized that his father was proud of himand loved him. It was new and sweet. He felt a little foolish, butvery happy."Jim," his father said huskily, "would you like a newbreech-loader?"And then Jim was happier still.       *       *       *       *       *Those were reluctant feet which dragged Mr. Peaslee the next morningto the jury-room. The counsel of the night had brought no comfort,and when he came among his fellows their constraint and silence werefar from reassuring. Nor, when the sitting had begun, did he likethe enigmatic smile with which the well-dressed Paige stood andswung his watch-chain. How he distrusted and feared this smug,self-complacent young man! Yet the state's attorney's first wordsbrought him unexpected comfort."Mr. Lamoury," he said, still with that puzzling smile, "hasconsented, in spite of his serious physical condition, to appearbefore you."Lamoury could not be so badly hurt if he could come to the courthouse! But what was this? While the state's attorney held wide thedoor, Jake Hibbard solemnly pushed into the room a great wheeledchair, in which sat the small, wiry, furtive-eyed Lamoury.Mr. Peaslee's heart sank as he saw the wheeled chair, and noted thegreat bandages about the Frenchman's head and arm. He listenedapprehensively to the loud complaint of cruelty to his client whichHibbard continued to make, until Paige, pulling the chair into theroom, blandly shut the door in his face. Mr. Peaslee heaved a greatsigh of mingled contrition and fear. This wreck was his work; hewould be punished for it."Mr. Lamoury," Paige began courteously, "we so wished to get yourversion of this painful affair that, though we are sorry to causeyou any discomfort, we have felt obliged to bring you here. Will youkindly tell the gentlemen of the grand jury what happened?""Yes, seh, me, Ah'll tol' heem!" said Lamoury, eagerly.Confident that no one knew anything about what had happened exceptJim Edwards and himself, he intended to make his narrativestriking."Yes, seh, Ah'll tol' de trut'. Well, seh, Ah'll be goin' t'roughM'sieu' Edwards's horchard--walkin' t'rough same as any mans. Den Ilook, han' I see dat leetly boy in de windy, a-shoutin' anda-cussin' lak he gone crazee in hees head. Ah tol' you Ah feel badfor hear dat leetly boy cussin'. Dat was too shame."And Lamoury paused to let this beautiful sentiment impress itselfupon the jurors. Mr. Peaslee listened with profound astonishment."Den he holler somet'ing Ah ain't hear, honly 'Canuck,' han' Ahbegins for get my mads up. Ah hain't do heem no harm, _hein_? Den hefire hees gun,--poom!--an' more as twenty--prob'ly ten shot-buckheet me on the head of it!"Buckshot! "Them's the marble," thought Mr. Peaslee, "but therewasn't but one!""Ah tol' you dey steeng lak bumbletybees. Ah t'ink me, dat weekedleetly boy goin' for shoot more as once prob'ly--mebbe two, t'reetam. Ah drop queek in de grass, an' Ah run--run queek! An' when Ahget home, Ah find two, t'ree, five, mebbe four hole in mah arm morebeeg as mah t'umb."Pete stopped dramatically; his little sparkling black eyes traveledquickly from one face to another to note the effect he had made. Mr.Peaslee's spirits were rising; the grand jury could not believe sucha "passel of lies"--only, only was one of those holes "beeg as maht'umb" made, perchance, by a marble?"That's a mighty moving narrative," commented Sampson, dryly. "Did Iunderstand you to say that you were hit in the head or the arm?""Bose of it," averred Pete, without winking."I didn't shoot any bag of marbles," whispered Mr. Peaslee to hisneighbor, who nodded. That he had the courage to address a remark toany one shows how his spirits were rising."You said you were going along the short cut through Mr. Edwards'sorchard, didn't you?" the state's attorney now asked."Yes, seh," said Pete.Paige stepped to a big blackboard, which he had had set up at theend of the room, and rapidly sketched a plan of the Edwards' lot,with the aid of a memorandum of measurements which he had secured.A line across the upper left-hand corner represented the pathcommonly used by the neighbors in going through the Edwards'sorchard."Now, Mr. Lamoury," resumed Paige, "I don't quite understand how, ifyou were on the path there, you could have seen young Edwards, or heyou. The barn seems to be in the way until just at the right-handend, and when you get to that, you'd have to look through about tenrows of apple-trees. Now weren't you a little off the line?""Dame!" exclaimed Pete, ingenuously. "Ah'll was got for be, sinceAh was shoot, ain't it? Ah'll can't remembler.""Mr. Edwards told us," continued Paige, while Solomon's heart warmedto him, "that he saw you fall out of some bushes. Now these are theonly bushes there are," and he rapidly indicated on the board therows of currant bushes, the asparagus, the sunflowers, and thelilacs which lined the garden on its right-hand corner. "That's agood way from the path.""Ah'll be there, me!" cried Pete, in indignant alarm. "No, seh!M'sieu' Edwards say dat? Respect_a_ble mans lak M'sieu' Edwards! Itwas shame for lie so. No, seh! Ah go home t'rough de horchard. MebbeAh'll go leetly ways off de path of it,--mebbe for peek up appleoff'n de groun' what no one ain't want for rot of it,--Ah'll don'tremembler. But I ain't go for hide in de bush! Ah'll be honest mans,me. Ah'll go for walk where all mans can see, ain't it? What Ah'llgo hide for, me?"Paige drew a square on Mr. Peaslee's side of the fence, directlyopposite the bushes."That," said he, "is Mr. Peaslee's hen-house," and he brushed thechalk from his fingers with an air of indifference."So-o?" cried Pete, with an air of pleased surprise. "M'sieu'Peaslee he'll got hen-rouse? First tam Ah'll was heard of it, me.Fine t'ing for have hen-rouse, fine t'ing for M'sieu' Peaslee. Ah'llt'ink heem for be lucky, M'sieu' Peaslee. But Ah'll ain't know it.Ah'll ain't see nossin' of it, no, seh!" and Pete smiled innocentlyround at the enigmatic faces of the jurymen."Mr. Lamoury," said Paige, with a very casual air, "behind thosebushes is a broken board.""So-o?" said Pete."Any one who was there had an excellent chance to study thefastenings of Mr. Peaslee's hen-house door.""_Mais_, Ah'll was tol' you Ah'll not be dere, me!" cried Pete,alarmed and excited."That," said Mr. Paige, calmly, "is the only place where you couldbe and get shot from the boy's window. Either you were there or youweren't shot. Besides, Mr. Edwards found your foot-prints."Pete shrunk his head into his shoulders and glared questioningly atthe state's attorney. The examination was not going to his liking."What Ah'll care for dat?" he said at last."Oh, nothing," said Paige, "nothing at all. Let us talk of somethingelse. Let me ask why Mr. Edwards discharged you from his employ lastspring?""Nossing! Nossing! Ah'll be work for heem more good as never was.""If he treated you as unjustly as that," said Paige, with sympathy,"you cannot have a very high opinion of Mr. Edwards.""Ah'll tol' you he was bad mans. He'll discharge me more as seextymile off. Ah'll have for walk, me. Ah'll tol' you dat was meantreek for play on poor mans."And Pete sought sympathy from the faces about him."That was too bad, certainly," said Paige. "Now about those woundsof yours. I have Doctor Brigham here, ready to make an examination.I'll call him now," and the state's attorney started toward the doorof the witness-room.Pete jumped."_Hein!_" he exclaimed."You don't object to having an excellent doctor like Doctor Brighamlook at your wounds, do you?" asked Paige.Now Lamoury had no wounds to show. The smiling, well-dressed Paige,standing there and looking at him with amused comprehension, wasmore than he could bear. Pete suddenly lost his temper, never toosecure. Out of his wheeled chair he jumped, and shaking his fist inPaige's face, he shouted:--"T'ink you be smart, very smart mans! Well, Ah'll tol' you youain't. Ah'll tol' you you be a great beeg peeg! Ah'll tol' you datEdwards boy, he shoot at me. I see heem. 'T ain't my fault of it ifhe not hit me, _hein_? You be peeg! You be all peegs--every one!"and Pete, making a wide, inclusive gesture, shouted, "I care notmore as one cent for de whole keet and caboodle of it! Peeg, peeg,peeg!"And turning on his heel, the wrathful Frenchman left the room. Heleft also a convulsed jury and a wheeled chair, for the hire ofwhich Hibbard found himself later obliged to pay.Mr. Peaslee, the thermometer of whose spirits had been risingsteadily, joined in the laughter which followed the exit of thediscomfited Pete."Terrible smart feller, Paige, ain't he?" said he to Albion Small."Did him up real slick, didn't he?" The delighted Solomon had quiteforgotten his dislike for the citified Paige.Of course the grand jury promptly abandoned the inquiry. The factwas now obvious that the vengeful Lamoury, aided by the unscrupulousHibbard, had merely hoped to be bought off by Mr. Edwards, and hadbeen disappointed."The case," said Paige, "would never have come to trial. If Edwardshad persisted, and let his boy go to court, they'd have had to stop.They must have been a good deal disappointed when he refused bail;they probably thought he'd never let the boy pass a night in HotelCalkins."       *       *       *       *       *Mr. Peaslee walked home sobered but relieved. The loss of publicesteem which had come to him through his foolish adventure, theserious wrong which he had inflicted upon Jim Edwards, the disgustof his wife were all things to chasten a man's spirit; but on theother hand, Jim was now out of jail, Lamoury had not been hurt inthe least, and he himself had not been complained of or arrested. Ifhe should have to endure some chaffing from Jim Bartlett and SiSpooner, his cronies at the bank, he "guessed he could stand it."On the whole, he was moderately happy.The sun was low in the west, and the trees were casting long shadowsacross his yard, brightly spattered with the red and yellow ofautumnal leaves. His house, white and neat and comfortable, seemedbasking like some still, somnolent animal in the warm sunshine.Solomon turned, and cast his eye down the road and over the RandomRiver, flowing smooth and peaceful through its great ox-bow. Herecognized Dannie Snow, scuffling through the dust with his barefeet, as he drove home his father's great, placid, full-udderedcow. The comfort of the scene, the cosy pleasantness of the placeamong the close-coming hills, struck him, in his relieved mood, asit had never done before. Even though disappointed in politicalambition, a man might live there in some content.After all, he had thirty thousand dollars, and it had been calmlydrawing interest through all his tribulations.Consoled by this reflection, he walked to the rear of his house andbegan pottering about the chicken yard. Then in the Edwards gardenappeared Jim. Solomon gave a slight start, and took a hesitatingstep or two, as if minded to flee, but restrained by shame. Hewatched the boy come to the fence, and climb upon it. He saidnothing; he could not think of anything to say."That harmonica was fine!" said Jim, grinning amiably.Mr. Peaslee was immensely relieved. If there was a momentary twingeat the thought of the money it had cost him, it was quickly gone."Glad ye enjoyed it. Seem 's though I wanted to give ye a littlesuthin'--considerin'. I hope you and your father ain't ones to layit up agin me.""That's all right," said Jim, grandly. "I had a bully time at thejail. Mrs. Calkins is a splendid woman. You just ought to eat one ofher doughnuts!""Didn't know they fed ye up much to the jail," commented Solomon,puzzled."Oh, I wasn't locked up," said Jim, and explained."Well, well, I'm beat! That was clever on 'em, wa'n't it now?" saidMr. Peaslee, much pleased."And father ain't holding any grudge, either," said Jim. "He sayshe's much obliged to you"--a remark which the reader willunderstand better than Mr. Peaslee ever did."You listen when you're eating your supper!" cried Jim, as heclimbed down from the fence and ran toward the house. "I'm going toplay on that harmonica!"And Solomon rejoiced. Poor man, he did not know how the popularityof his gift was destined to endure; he did not know that he had letloose upon the circumambient air sounds worse than any ever emittedby the Calico Cat.Filled with the pleasant sense of having "made it up" with the boywhom he thought he had so greatly injured, Solomon started alongthe path toward the kitchen door. He began to realize that he had anappetite--something now long unfamiliar to him. As he drew near, anappetizing odor smote his nostrils."Eyesters, I swanny!" he ejaculated.It was unheard of! There was nothing which Solomon, who had a keenrelish for good things to eat, and would even have been extravagantin this one particular had his firm-willed wife permitted, enjoyedmore than an oyster stew, or which he had a chance to taste lessoften. Oysters could be had in town for sixty cents a quart, asum that seems not large; but in Mrs. Peaslee's mind they wereassociated with the elegance and luxury of church "sociables,"and with the dissipation of supper after country dances. Theywere extravagant food. Solomon could not believe his nose.He entered the door, and there upon the table stood the big tureen,with two soup plates at Mrs. Peaslee's place. There was nothing elsebut the stew, of course, but it lent a gala air to the wholekitchen."Why, Sarepty, Sarepty!" he said to his wife."You goin' to be arrested?" asked Mrs. Peaslee, sharply. She wantedno sentiment over her unwonted generosity; but, truth to tell, whenshe had seen Solomon depart that morning, and realized that he mightbe going to arrest, possibly to trial, perhaps to conviction and tojail, she had felt a sudden fright, a sudden sympathy for herhusband, and she had bought half a pint of oysters for a stew--inspite of expense."No, I ain't going to be arrested," said Solomon, with satisfaction."The grand jury found there wa'n't anythin' to it; but--but,Sarepty--"He paused helplessly, unable to express his complex feelings aboutthe stew, and the attitude on the part of his wife which itrevealed."Oh, well," said his wife, "after all, 't ain't 's if you'd gone andlost money."And after supper Mr. Peaslee carefully poured some skimmed milk intoa saucer and went out to the barn."Kitty, kitty!" he called. "Kitty, come, kitty!"The Calico Cat did not respond. But in the morning the saucerwas empty.+------------------------------------------+|Transcriber's Note                        ||                                          ||The cover illustration referred to in the ||Author's Note at the beginning of this    ||book was not available for this electronic||version of the text.                      |+------------------------------------------+End of Project Gutenberg's The Calico Cat, by Charles Miner Thompson*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CALICO CAT ******** This file should be named 20010.txt or 20010.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/0/0/1/20010/Produced by Jacqueline Jeremy, David Edwards and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Thisbook was produced from scanned images of public domainmaterial from the Google Print project.)Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.*** END: FULL LICENSE ***The Project Gutenberg eBook, James Madison, by Sydney Howard GayThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: James MadisonAuthor: Sydney Howard GayRelease Date: May 29, 2009  [eBook #28992]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ISO-8859-1***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JAMES MADISON***E-text prepared by Suzanne Shell, Carla Foust, and the Project GutenbergOnline Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net)Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this      file which includes the original illustrations.      See 28992-h.htm or 28992-h.zip:      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/28992/28992-h/28992-h.htm)      or      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/28992/28992-h.zip)Transcriber's note:      Minor punctuation errors have been corrected without notice.      Printer's errors have been corrected and are listed at the      end of the book. All other inconsistencies are as in the      original.Giants of AmericaThe Founding Fathers[Illustration: James Madison]JAMES MADISONbySYDNEY HOWARD GAY[Illustration: _The Home of James Madison_]ARLINGTON HOUSE _New Rochelle, N.Y._CONTENTS    CHAP.                                            PAGE       I. THE VIRGINIA MADISONS                         1      II. THE YOUNG STATESMAN                          15     III. IN CONGRESS                                  28      IV. IN THE STATE ASSEMBLY                        45       V. IN THE VIRGINIA LEGISLATURE                  61      VI. PUBLIC DISTURBANCES AND ANXIETIES            73     VII. THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION                84    VIII. "THE COMPROMISES"                            94      IX. ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION                110       X. THE FIRST CONGRESS                          122      XI. NATIONAL FINANCES--SLAVERY                  144     XII. FEDERALISTS AND REPUBLICANS                 164    XIII. FRENCH POLITICS                             185     XIV. HIS LATEST YEARS IN CONGRESS                207      XV. AT HOME--"RESOLUTIONS OF '98 AND '99"       225     XVI. SECRETARY OF STATE                          242    XVII. THE EMBARGO                                 254   XVIII. MADISON AS PRESIDENT                        272     XIX. WAR WITH ENGLAND                            290      XX. CONCLUSION                                  309   INDEX                                              325ILLUSTRATIONS   JAMES MADISON                                          _Frontispiece_   From the painting by Sully in the Corcoran Gallery of   Art, Washington, D. C.   Autograph from a MS. in the New York Public Library,   Lenox Building.   The vignette of "Montpelier," Madison's home at   Montpelier, Va., is from a photograph.                           Page   CHARLES COTESWORTH PINCKNEY                               _facing_ 98   From the original painting by Gilbert Stuart in the possession   of Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, D. D., LL. D.,   Charleston, S. C.   Autograph from a MS. in the New York Public Library,   Lenox Building.   FISHER AMES                                              _facing_ 162   From the miniature painted by John Trumbull in 1792,   now in the Art Gallery of Yale University.   Autograph from the Chamberlain Collection, Boston   Public Library.   DOLLY P. MADISON                                         _facing_ 222   From a miniature in the possession of Dr. H. M. Cutts,   Brookline, Mass.   Autograph from a letter kindly loaned by Dr. Cutts.   BATTLE OF LAKE ERIE                                      _facing_ 310   From the painting by W. H. Powell in the Capitol at   Washington.JAMES MADISONCHAPTER ITHE VIRGINIA MADISONSJames Madison was born on March 16, 1751, at Port Conway, Virginia; hedied at Montpellier, in that State, on June 28, 1836. Mr. John QuincyAdams, recalling, perhaps, the death of his own father and of Jeffersonon the same Fourth of July, and that of Monroe on a subsequentanniversary of that day, may possibly have seen a generous propriety infinding some equally appropriate commemoration for the death of anotherVirginian President. For it was quite possible that Virginia might thinkhim capable of an attempt to conceal, what to her mind would seem to bean obvious intention of Providence: that all the children of the "Motherof Presidents" should be no less distinguished in their deaths than intheir lives--that the "other dynasty," which John Randolph was wont totalk about, should no longer pretend to an equality with them, notmerely in this world, but in the manner of going out of it. At anyrate, he notes the date of Madison's death, the twenty-eighth day ofJune, as "the anniversary of the day on which the ratification of theConvention of Virginia in 1788 had affixed the seal of James Madison asthe father of the Constitution of the United States, when his earthlypart sank without a struggle into the grave, and a spirit, bright as theseraphim that surround the throne of Omnipotence, ascended to the bosomof his God." There can be no doubt of the deep sincerity of thistribute, whatever question there may be of its grammatical constructionand its rhetoric, and although the date is erroneous. The ratificationof the Constitution of the United States by the Virginia Convention wason June 25, not on June 28. It is the misfortune of our time that wehave no living great men held in such universal veneration that theirdying on common days like common mortals seems quite impossible. Half acentury ago, however, the propriety of such providential arrangementsappears to have been recognized almost as one of the "institutions." Itwas the newspaper gossip of that time that a "distinguished physician"declared that he would have kept a fourth ex-President alive to die on aFourth of July, had the illustrious sick man been under his treatment.The patient himself, had he been consulted, might, in that case,possibly have declined to have a fatal illness prolonged a week togratify the public fondness for patriotic coincidence. But Mr. Adams'sappropriation of another anniversary answered all the purpose, for thathe made a mistake as to the date does not seem to have been discovered.It was accidental that Port Conway was the birthplace of Madison. Hismaternal grandfather, whose name was Conway, had a plantation at thatplace, and young Mrs. Madison happened to be there on a visit to hermother when her first child, James, was born. In the stately--not to saystilted--biography of him by William C. Rives, the christened name ofthis lady is given as Eleanor. Mr. Rives may have thought it not inaccordance with ancestral dignity that the mother of so distinguished ason should have been burdened with so commonplace and homely a name asNelly. But we are afraid it is true that Nelly was her name. No otherbiographer than Mr. Rives, that we know of, calls her Eleanor. EvenMadison himself permits "Nelly" to pass under his eyes and from hishands as his mother's name.In 1833-34 there was some correspondence between him and Lyman C.Draper, the historian, which includes some notes upon the Madisongenealogy. These, the ex-President writes, were "made out by a member ofthe family," and they may be considered, therefore, as having hissanction. The first record is, that "James Madison was the son of JamesMadison and Nelly Conway." On such authority Nelly, and not Eleanor,must be accepted as the mother's name. This, of course, is to beregretted from the Rives point of view; but perhaps the name had a lessfamiliar sound a century and a half ago; and no doubt it was chosen byher parents without a thought that their daughter might go into historyas the mother of a President, or that any higher fortune could befallher than to be the respectable head of a tobacco planter's family on thebanks of the Rappahannock.This genealogical record further says that "his [Madison's] ancestors,on both sides, were not among the most wealthy of the country, but inindependent and comfortable circumstances." If this comment was added atthe ex-President's own dictation, it was quite in accordance with hisunpretentious character.[1] One might venture to say as much of aNorthern or a Western farmer. But they did not farm in Virginia; theyplanted. Mr. Rives says that the elder James was "a large landedproprietor;" and he adds, "a large landed estate in Virginia ... was amimic commonwealth, with its foreign and domestic relations, and itsregular administrative hierarchy." The "foreign relations" were theshipping, once a year, a few hogsheads of tobacco to a London factor;the "mimic commonwealths" were clusters of negro huts; and the"administrative hierarchy" was the priest, who was more at home at thetavern or a horse-race than in the discharge of his clerical duties.As Mr. Madison had only to say of his immediate ancestors--which seemsto be all he knew about them--that they were in "independent andcomfortable circumstances," so he was, apparently, as little inclined totalk about himself; even at that age when it is supposed that men whohave enjoyed celebrity find their own lives the most agreeable ofsubjects. In answer to Dr. Draper's inquiries he wrote this modestletter, now for the first time published:--MONTPELLIER, _August 9, 1833_.DEAR SIR,--Since your letter of the 3d of June came to hand, myincreasing age and continued maladies, with the many attentions due fromme, had caused a delay in acknowledging it, for which thesecircumstances must be an apology, in your case, as I have been obligedto make them in others.You wish me to refer you to sources of printed information on my careerin life, and it would afford me pleasure to do so; but my recollectionon the subject is very defective. It occurs [to me] that there was abiographical volume in an enlarged edition compiled by General or JudgeRodgers of Pennsylvania, and which may perhaps have included my name,among others. When or where it was published I cannot say. To thisreference I can only add generally the newspapers at the seat ofgovernment and elsewhere during the electioneering periods, when I wasone of the objects under review. I need scarcely remark that a life,which has been so much a public life, must of course be traced in thepublic transactions in which it was involved, and that the mostimportant of them are to be found in documents already in print, or soonto be so.   With friendly respects, JAMES MADISON.   LYMAN C. DRAPER, Lockport, N. Y.The genealogical statement, it will be observed, does not go fartherback than Mr. Madison's great-grandfather, John. Mr. Rives supposes thatthis John was the son of another John who, as "the pious researches ofkindred have ascertained," took out a patent for land about 1653 betweenthe North and York rivers on the shores of Chesapeake Bay. The samewriter further assumes that this John was descended from Captain IsaacMadison, whose name appears "in a document in the State Paper Office atLondon containing a list of the Colonists in 1623." From Sainsbury'sCalendar[2] we learn something more of this Captain Isaac than this meremention. Under date of January 24, 1623, there is this record: "CaptainPowell, gunner, of James City, is dead; Capt. Nuce (?), Capt. Maddison,Lieut. Craddock's brother, and divers more of the chief men reporteddead." But either the report was not altogether true or there wasanother Isaac Maddison, for the name appears among the signatures to aletter dated about a month later--February 20--from the governor,council, and Assembly of Virginia to the king. It is of record, also,that four months later still, on June 4, "Capt. Isaac and Mary Maddison"were before the governor and council as witnesses in the case ofGreville Pooley and Cicely Jordan, between whom there was a "supposedcontract of marriage," made "three or four days after her husband'sdeath." But the lively widow, it seems, afterward "contracted herself toWill Ferrar before the governor and council, and disavowed the formercontract," and the case therefore became so complicated that the courtwas "not able to decide so nice a difference." What Captain Isaac andMary Maddison knew about the matter the record does not tell us; but theevidence is conclusive that if there was but one Isaac Maddison inVirginia in 1623 he did not die in January of that year. Probably therewas but one, and he, as Rives assumes, was the Captain Madyson of whose"achievement," as Rives calls it, there is a brief narrative in JohnSmith's "General History of Virginia."Besides the record in Sainsbury's Calendar of the rumor of the death ofthis Isaac in Virginia, in January, 1623, his signature to a letter tothe king in February, and his appearance as a witness before the councilin the case of the widow Jordan, in June, it appears by Hotten's Listsof colonists, taken from the Records in the English State PaperDepartment, that Captain Isacke Maddeson and Mary Maddeson were livingin 1624 at West and Sherlow Hundred Island. The next year, at the sameplace, he is on the list of dead; and there is given under the same date"The muster of Mrs. Mary Maddison, widow, aged 30 years." Her familyconsisted of "Katherin Layden, child, aged 7 years," and two servants.Katherine, it may be assumed, was the daughter of the widow Mary andCaptain Isaac, and their only child. These "musters," it should be said,appear always to have been made with great care, and there is thereforehardly a possibility that a son, if there were one, was omitted in thenumeration of the widow's family, while the name and age of the littlegirl, and the names and ages of the two servants, the date of theirarrival in Virginia, and the name of the ship that each came in, are allcarefully given. The conclusion is inevitable: Isaac Maddison left nomale descendants, and President Madison's earliest ancestor in Virginia,if it was not his great-grandfather John, must be looked for somewhereelse.Mr. Rives knew nothing of these Records. His first volume was publishedbefore either Sainsbury's Calendar or Hotten's Lists; and the researcheson which he relied, "conducted by a distinguished member of theHistorical Society of Virginia" in the English State Paper Office, were,so far as they related to the Madisons, incomplete and worthless. Thefamily was not, apparently, "coeval with the foundation of the Colony,"and did not arrive "among the earliest of the emigrants in the NewWorld." That distinction cannot be claimed for James Madison, nor isthere any reason for supposing that he believed it could be. He seemedquite content with the knowledge that so far back as hisgreat-grandfather his ancestors had been respectable people, "inindependent and comfortable circumstances."Of his own generation there were seven children, of whom James was theeldest, and alone became of any note, except that the rest werereputable and contented people in their stations of life. A hundredyears ago the Arcadian Virginia, for which Governor Berkeley hadthanked God so devoutly,--when there was not a free school nor a pressin the province,--had passed away. The elder Madison resolved, so Mr.Rives tells us, that his children should have advantages of educationwhich had not been within his own reach, and that they should all enjoythem equally. James was sent to a school where he could at least beginthe studies which should fit him to enter college. Of the master of thatschool we know nothing except that he was a Scotchman, of the name ofDonald Robertson, and that many years afterward, when his son was anapplicant for office to Madison, then secretary of state, the pupilgratefully remembered his old master, and indorsed upon the applicationthat "the writer is son of Donald Robertson, the learned Teacher in Kingand Queen County, Virginia."The preparatory studies for college were finished at home under theclergyman of the parish, the Rev. Thomas Martin, who was a member of Mr.Madison's family, perhaps as a private tutor, perhaps as a boarder. Itis quite likely that it was by the advice of this gentleman--who wasfrom New Jersey--that the lad was sent to Princeton instead of toWilliam and Mary College in Virginia. At Princeton, at any rate, heentered at the age of eighteen, in 1769; or, to borrow Mr. Rives'seloquent statement of the fact, "the young Virginian, invested with the_toga virilis_ of anticipated manhood, we now see launched on thatdisciplinary career which is to form him for the future struggles oflife."One of his biographers says that he shortened his collegiate term bytaking in one year the studies of the junior and senior years, but thathe remained another twelve-month at Princeton for the sake of acquiringHebrew. On his return home he undertook the instruction of his youngerbrothers and sisters, while pursuing his own studies. Still anotherbiographer asserts that he began immediately to read law, but Rivesgives some evidence that he devoted himself to theology. This and hisgiving himself to Hebrew for a year point to the ministry as his chosenprofession. But if we rightly interpret his own words, he had littlestrength or spirit for a pursuit of any sort. His first "struggle oflife" was apparently with ill-health, and the career he looked forwardto was a speedy journey to another world. In a letter to a friend(November, 1772) he writes: "I am too dull and infirm now to look outfor extraordinary things in this world, for I think my sensations formany months have intimated to me not to expect a long or healthy life;though it may be better with me after some time; but I hardly dareexpect it, and therefore have little spirit or elasticity to set aboutanything that is difficult in acquiring, and useless in possessing afterone has exchanged time for eternity." In the same letter he assures hisfriend that he approves of his choice of history and morals as thesubjects of his winter studies; but, he adds, "I doubt not but youdesign to season them with a little divinity now and then, which, likethe philosopher's stone in the hands of a good man, will turn them andevery lawful acquirement into the nature of itself, and make them moreprecious than fine gold."The bent of his mind at this time seems to have been decidedlyreligious. He was a diligent student of the Bible, and, Mr. Rives says,"he explored the whole history and evidences of Christianity on everyside, through clouds of witnesses and champions for and against, fromthe fathers and schoolmen down to the infidel philosophers of theeighteenth century." So wide a range of theological study is remarkablein a youth of only two or three and twenty years of age; but,remembering that he was at this time living at home, it is even moreremarkable that in the house of an ordinary planter in Virginia ahundred and twenty years ago could be found a library so rich intheology as to admit of study so exhaustive. But in Virginia historynothing is impossible.His studies on this subject, however, whether wide or limited, bore goodfruit. Religious intolerance was at that time common in his immediateneighborhood, and it aroused him to earnest and open opposition; nor didthat opposition cease till years afterward, when freedom of consciencewas established by law in Virginia, largely by his labors and influence.Even in 1774, when all the colonies were girding themselves for thecoming revolutionary conflict, he turned aside from a discussion of themomentous question of the hour, in a letter to his friend[3] inPhiladelphia, and exclaimed with unwonted heat:--     "But away with politics!... That diabolical, hell-conceived     principle of persecution rages among some; and, to their eternal     infamy, the clergy can furnish their quota of imps for such     purposes. There are at this time in the adjacent country not less     than five or six well-meaning men in close jail for publishing     their religious sentiments, which in the main are very orthodox. I     have neither patience to hear, talk, or think of anything relative     to this matter; for I have squabbled and scolded, abused and     ridiculed so long about it to little purpose that I am without     common patience."These are stronger terms than the mild-tempered Madison often indulgedin. But he felt strongly. Probably he, no more than many other wiser andolder men, understood what was to be the end of the political strugglewhich was getting so earnest; but evidently in his mind it was religiousrather than civil liberty which was to be guarded. "If the Church ofEngland," he says in the same letter, "had been the established andgeneral religion in all the Northern colonies, as it has been among ushere, and uninterrupted harmony had prevailed throughout the continent,it is clear to me that slavery and subjection might and would have beengradually insinuated among us."He congratulated his friend that they had not permitted the tea-ships tobreak cargo in Philadelphia; and Boston, he hoped, would "conductmatters with as much discretion as they seem to do with boldness." Thesethings were interesting and important; but "away with politics! Let meaddress you as a student and philosopher, and not as a patriot." Shutoff from any contact with the stirring incidents of that year in thetowns of the coast, he lost something of the sense of proportion. To ayoung student, solitary, ill in body, perhaps a trifle morbid in mind, alittle discontented that all the learning gained at Princeton could findno better use than to save schooling for the six youngsters at home,--tohim it may have seemed that liberty was more seriously threatened bythat outrage, under his own eyes, of "five or six well-meaning men inclose jail for publishing their religious sentiments," than by any taxwhich Parliament could contrive. Not that he overestimated theimportance of this wrong, but that he underestimated the importance ofthat. He was not long, however, in getting the true perspective.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 1: Dr. Draper has kindly put into our hands the correspondencebetween himself and Mr. Madison, and we copy these genealogical notes infull, with the letter in which they were sent, as all that theex-President had to say about his ancestry:--MONTPELLIER, _February 1, 1834_.DEAR SIR,--I have received your letter of December 31st, and inclose asketch on the subject of it, made out by a member of the family. Withfriendly respects,JAMES MADISON."James Madison was the son of James Madison and Nelly Conway. He wasborn on the 5th of March, 1751 (O. S.), at Port Conway, on theRappahannock River, where she was at the time on a visit to her motherresiding there."His father was the son of Ambrose Madison and Frances Taylor. Hismother was the daughter of Francis Conway and Rebecca Catlett."His paternal grandfather was the son of John Madison and Isabella MinorTodd. His paternal grandmother, the daughter of James Taylor and MarthaThompson."His maternal grandfather was the son of Edwin Conway and ElizabethThornton. His maternal grandmother, the daughter of John Catlett and---- Gaines."His father was a planter, and dwelt on the estate now calledMontpellier, where he died February 27, 1801, in the 78th year of hisage. His mother died at the same place in 1829, February 11th, in the98th year of her age."His grandfathers were also planters. It appears that his ancestors, onboth sides, were not among the most wealthy of the country, but inindependent and comfortable circumstances."][Footnote 2: _Calendar of State Papers_, Colonial Series, 1574-1660,Preserved in the State Paper Department of Her Majesty's Public RecordOffice, edited by W. Noel Sainsbury, Esq., etc. London, 1860.][Footnote 3: The letters to a friend, from which we have quoted, werewritten to William Bradford, Jr., of Philadelphia, afterwardattorney-general in Washington's administration. They are given in fullin _The Writings of James Madison_, vol. i.]CHAPTER IITHE YOUNG STATESMANMadison's place, both from temperament and from want of physical vigor,was in the council, not in the field. One of his early biographers saysthat he joined a military company, raised in his own county, inpreparation for war; but this, there can hardly be a doubt, is an error.He speaks with enthusiasm of the "high-spirited" volunteers, who cameforward to defend "the honor and safety of their country;" but there isno intimation that he chose for himself that way of showing hispatriotism. But of the Committee of Safety, appointed in his county in1774, he was made a member,--perhaps the youngest, for he was then onlytwenty-three years old.Eighteen months afterward he was elected a delegate to the VirginiaConvention of 1776, and this he calls "my first entrance into publiclife." It gave him also an opportunity for some distinction, which,whatever may have been his earlier plans, opened public life to him as acareer. The first work of the convention was to consider and adopt aseries of resolutions instructing the Virginian delegates in theContinental Congress, then in session at Philadelphia, to urge animmediate declaration of independence. The next matter was to frame aBill of Rights and a Constitution of government for the province.Madison was made a member of the committee to which this latter subjectwas referred. One question necessarily came up for consideration whichhad for him a peculiar interest, and in any discussion of which he, nodoubt, felt quite at ease. This was concerning religious freedom. Anarticle in the proposed Declaration of Rights provided that "all menshould enjoy the fullest toleration in the exercise of religion,according to the dictates of conscience, unpunished and unrestrained bythe magistrate, unless, under color of religion, any man disturb thepeace, happiness, or safety of society." It does not appear that Mr.Madison offered any objection to the article in the committee; but whenthe report was made to the convention he moved an amendment. He pointedout the distinction between the recognition of an absolute right and thetoleration of its exercise; for toleration implies the power ofjurisdiction. He proposed, therefore, instead of providing that "all menshould enjoy the fullest toleration in the exercise of religion," todeclare that "all men are equally entitled to the full and free exerciseof it according to the dictates of conscience;" and that "no man orclass of men ought, on account of religion, to be invested with peculiaremoluments or privileges, nor subjected to any penalties ordisabilities, unless, under color of religion, the preservation ofequal liberty and the existence of the state be manifestly endangered."This distinction between the assertion of a right and the promise togrant a privilege only needed to be pointed out. But Mr. Madisonevidently meant more; he meant not only that religious freedom should beassured, but that an Established Church, which, as we have already seen,he believed to be dangerous to liberty, should be prohibited. Possiblythe convention was not quite ready for this latter step; or possibly itsmembers thought that, as the greater includes the less, should freedomof conscience be established a state church would be impossible, and thearticle might therefore be stripped of supererogation and verbiage. Atany rate, it was reduced one half, and finally adopted in this simplerform: "That religion, or the duty we owe to our Creator, and the mannerof discharging it, can be directed only by reason and conviction, not byforce or violence; and, therefore, all men are equally entitled to thefree exercise of religion according to the dictates of conscience." Thusit stands to this day in the Bill of Rights of Virginia, and of otherStates which subsequently made it their own, possessing for us thepersonal interest of being the first public work of the comingstatesman.Madison was thenceforth for the next forty years a public man. Of thefirst Assembly under the new Constitution he was elected a member. Forthe next session also he was a candidate, but failed to be returned fora reason as creditable to him as it was uncommon then, whatever it maybe now, in Virginia. "The sentiments and manners of the parent nation,"Mr. Rives says, still prevailed in Virginia, "and the modes ofcanvassing for popular votes in that country were generally practiced.The people not only tolerated, but expected and even required, to becourted and treated. No candidate who neglected those attentions couldbe elected." But the times, Mr. Madison thought, seemed "to favor a morechaste mode of conducting elections," and he "determined to attempt, byan example, to introduce it." He failed signally; "the sentiments andmanners of the parent nation" were too much for him. He solicited novotes; nobody got drunk at his expense; and he lost the election. Anattempt was made to contest the return of his opponent on the ground ofcorrupt influence, but, adds Mr. Rives, in his sesquipedalian measure,"for the want of adequate proof to sustain the allegations of thepetition which in such cases it is extremely difficult to obtain withthe requisite precision, the proceeding was unavailing except as aperpetual protest, upon the legislative records of the country, againsta dangerous abuse, of which one of her sons, so qualified to serve her,and destined to be one of her chief ornaments, was the early thoughtemporary victim." Mr. Rives does not mean that Mr. Madison was for alittle while in early life the victim of a vicious habit, but that helost votes because he would do nothing to encourage it in others.The country lost a good representative, but their loss was his gain. TheAssembly immediately elected him a member of the governor's council, andin this position he so grew in public favor that, two years afterward(1780), he was chosen as a delegate to the Continental Congress. He wasstill under thirty, and had he been even a more brilliant young man thanhe really was, it would not have been to his discredit had he only beenseen for the next year or two, if seen at all, in the background. He hadtaken his seat among men, every one of whom, probably, was his senior,and among whom were many of the wisest men in the country, not "older"merely, but "better soldiers."If not the darkest, at least there was no darker year in the Revolutionthan that of 1780. Within a few days of his arrival at Philadelphia,Madison wrote to Jefferson--then governor of Virginia--his opinion ofthe state of the country. It was gloomy but not exaggerated. The onlybright spot he could see was the chance that Clinton's expedition toSouth Carolina might be a failure; but within little more than a monthfrom the date of his letter, Lincoln was compelled to surrenderCharleston, and the whole country south of Virginia seemed about to fallinto the hands of the enemy. Could he have foreseen that calamity, hisapprehensions might have been changed to despair; for he writes:--     "Our army threatened with an immediate alternative of disbanding or     living on free quarter; the public treasury empty; public credit     exhausted, nay, the private credit of purchasing agents employed, I     am told, as far as it will bear; Congress complaining of the     extortion of the people, the people of the improvidence of     Congress, and the army of both; our affairs requiring the most     mature and systematic measures, and the urgency of occasions     admitting only of temporary expedients, and these expedients     generating new difficulties; Congress recommending plans to the     several States for execution, and the States separately rejudging     the expediency of such plans, whereby the same distrust of     concurrent exertions that had damped the ardor of patriotic     individuals must produce the same effect among the States     themselves; an old system of finance discarded as incompetent to     our necessities, an untried and precarious one substituted, and a     total stagnation in prospect between the end of the former and the     operation of the latter. These are the outlines of the picture of     our public situation. I leave it to your own imagination to fill     them up."He saw more clearly, perhaps, after the experience of one session ofCongress, the true cause of all these troubles; at any rate, he wasable, in a letter written in November of that year (1780), to state ittersely and explicitly. The want of money, he wrote to a friend, "is thesource of all our public difficulties and misfortunes. One or twomillions of guineas properly applied would diffuse vigor andsatisfaction throughout the whole military department, and would expelthe enemy from every part of the United States."But nobody knew better than he the difficulty of raising funds except byborrowing abroad, and that this was a precarious reliance. There must besome sort of substitute for money. In specific taxation he had no faith.Such taxes, if paid at all, would be paid, virtually, in the papercurrency or certificates of the States, and these had already fallen tothe ratio of one hundred to one; they kept on falling till they reachedthe rate of a thousand to one, and then soon became altogetherworthless. When the estimate for the coming year was underconsideration, he proposed to Congress that the States should be advisedto abandon the issue of this paper currency. "It met," he says, "with socool a reception that I did not much urge it." The sufficient answer tothe proposition was, that "the practice was manifestly repugnant to theActs of Congress," and as these were disregarded and could not beenforced, a mere remonstrance would be quite useless. The Union waslittle more than a name under the feeble bonds of the Confederation, andeach State was a law unto itself. Not that in this case there was muchreasonable ground for complaint; for what else could the States do?Where there was no money there must be something to take its place; apromise to pay must be accepted instead of payment. The paper answered atemporary purpose, though it was plain that in the end it would be goodfor nothing.The evil, however, was manifestly so great that there was only the morereason for trying to mitigate it, if it could not be cured. Madison,like the rest, had his remedy. He proposed, in a letter to one of hiscolleagues, that the demand for army supplies should be duly apportionedamong the people, their collection rigorously enforced, and payment madein interest-bearing certificates, not transferable, but to be redeemedat a specified time after the war was over. The plan would undoubtedlyhave put a stop to the circulation of a vast volume of paper money ifthe producers would have exchanged the products of their labor forcertificates, useless at the time of exchange, and having only apossible prospective value in case of the successful termination of anuncertain war. Patriotic as the people were, they neither would norcould have submitted to such a law, nor had Congress the power toenforce it. But Mr. Madison did not venture apparently to urge his planbeyond its suggestion to his colleague.Why the Assembly of Virginia should have proposed to elect an extradelegate to Congress, early in 1781, is not clear, unless it be that oneof the number, Joseph Jones, being also a member of the Assembly, passedmuch of his time in Richmond. It does not appear, however, that thedelegate extraordinary was ever sent, perhaps because it was known toMr. Madison's friends that it would be a mortification to him. There wascertainly no good reason for any distrust of either his ability or hisindustry. One could hardly be otherwise than industrious who had it inhim--if the story be true--to take but three hours out of thetwenty-four for sleep during the last year of his college course, thathe might crowd the studies of two years into one. He seemed to love workfor its own sake, and he was a striking example of how much virtue thereis in steadiness of pursuit. Not that he had at this time any specialgoal for his ambition. His aim seemed to be simply to do the best hecould wherever he might be placed; to discharge faithfully, and to thebest of such ability as he had, whatever duty was intrusted to him. Hisreport of the proceedings in the congressional session of 1782-83, andthe letters written during those years and the year before, show that hewas not merely diligent but absorbed in the duties of his office.He was more faithful to his constituents than his constituents sometimeswere to him. Anything that might happen at that period for want of moneycan hardly be a matter of surprise; but Virginia, even then, should havebeen able, it would seem, to find enough to enable its members ofCongress to pay their board-bills. He complains gently in his Addisonianway of the inconvenience to which he was put for want of funds. "Icannot," he writes to Edmund Randolph, "in any way make you moresensible of the importance of your kind attention to pecuniaryremittances for me, than by informing you that I have for some time pastbeen a pensioner on the favor of Hayne Solomon, a Jew broker." A monthlater he writes, that to draw bills on Virginia has been tried, "but invain;" nobody would buy them; and he adds, "I am relapsing fast intodistress. The case of my brethren is equally alarming." Within a week heagain writes: "I am almost ashamed to reiterate my wants so incessantlyto you, but they begin to be so urgent that it is impossible to suppressthem." But the Good Samaritan, Solomon, is still an unfailing reliance."The kindness of our little friend in Front Street, near the coffeehouse, is a fund which will preserve me from extremities; but I neverresort to it without great mortification, as he obstinately rejects allrecompense. The price of money is so usurious that he thinks it ought tobe extorted from none but those who aim at profitable speculations. To anecessitous delegate he gratuitously spares a supply out of his privatestock." It is a pretty picture of the simplicity of the early days ofthe Republic. Between the average modern member and the money-broker,under such circumstances, there would lurk, probably, a contract forcarrying the mails or for Indian supplies.Relief, however, came at last. An appeal was made in a letter to thegovernor of Virginia, which was so far public that anybody about theexecutive office might read it. The answer to this letter, says Mr.Madison, "seems to chide our urgency." But there soon came a bill fortwo hundred dollars, which, he adds, "very seasonably enabled me toreplace a loan by which I had anticipated it. About three hundred andfifty more (not less) would redeem me completely from the class ofdebtors." It is to be hoped it came without further chiding.[4]The young member was not less attentive to his congressional dutiesbecause of these little difficulties in the personal ways and means.Military movements seem, without altogether escaping his attention, tohave interested him the least. In his letters to the public men at home,which were meant in some degree to give such information as in latertimes the newspapers supplied, questions relating to army affairs, evennews directly from the army, occupy the least space. They are notalways, for that reason, altogether entertaining reading. One would beglad, occasionally, to exchange their sonorous and rounded periods forany expression of quick, impulsive feeling. "I return you," he writes toPendleton, "my fervent congratulations on the glorious success of thecombined armies at York and Gloucester. We have had from theCommander-in-Chief an official report of the fact,"--and so forth and soforth; and then for a page or more is a discussion of the condition ofBritish possessions in the East Indies, that "rich source of theircommerce and credit, severed from them, perhaps forever;" of "thepredatory conquest of Eustatia;" and of the "relief of Gibraltar, whichwas merely a negative advantage;"--all to show that "it seems scarcelypossible for them much longer to shut their ears against the voice ofpeace." There is not a word in all this that is not quite true,pertinent, reflective, and becoming a statesman; but neither is there aword of sympathetic warmth and patriotic fervor which at that momentmade the heart of a whole people beat quicker at the news of a greatvictory, and in the hope that the cause was gained at last.All the letters have this preternatural solemnity, as if each was astudy in style after the favorite Addisonian model. One wonders if hedid not, in the privacy of his own room and with the door locked,venture to throw his hat to the ceiling and give one hurrah under hisbreath at the discomfiture of the vain and self-sufficient Cornwallis.But he seems never to have been a young man. At one and twenty hegravely warned his friend Bradford not "to suffer those impertinent fopsthat abound in every city to divert you from your business andphilosophical amusements.... You will make them respect and admire youmore by showing your indignation at their follies, and by keeping themat a becoming distance." It was his loss, however, and our gain. He wasone of the men the times demanded, and without whom they would have beenquite different times and followed by quite different results. Thesombre hue of his life was due partly, no doubt, to natural temperament;partly to the want of health in his earlier manhood, which led him tobelieve that his days were numbered; but quite as much, if not more thaneither, to a keen sense of the responsibility resting upon those to whomhad fallen the conduct of public affairs.FOOTNOTE:[Footnote 4: The members of Congress were paid, at that time, by theStates they represented. Virginia allowed her delegates their familyexpenses, including three servants and four horses, house rent and fuel,two dollars a mile for travel, and twenty dollars a day when inattendance on Congress. The members were required to render an accountquarterly of their household expenses, and the State paid them when shehad any money.]CHAPTER IIIIN CONGRESSMadison had grown steadily in the estimation of his colleagues, as isshown, especially in 1783, by the frequency of his appointment uponimportant committees. He was a member of that one to which was intrustedthe question of national finances, and it is plain, even in his ownmodest report of the debates of that session, that he took an importantpart in the long discussions of the subject, and exercised a markedinfluence upon the result. The position of the government was one ofextreme difficulty. To tide over an immediate necessity, a further loanhad been asked of France in 1782, and bills were drawn against itwithout waiting for acceptance. It was not very likely, but it was notimpossible, that the bills might go to protest; but even should they behonored, so irregular a proceeding was a humiliating acknowledgment ofpoverty and weakness, to which some of the delegates, Mr. Madison amongthem, were extremely sensitive.The national debt altogether was not less than forty million dollars. Toprovide for the interest on this debt, and a fund for expenses, it wasnecessary to raise about three million dollars annually. But the sumactually contributed for the support of the confederate government in1782 was only half a million dollars. This was not from any absoluteinability on the part of the people to pay more; for the taxes beforethe war were more than double that sum, and for the first three or fouryears of the war it was computed that, with the depreciation of papermoney, the people submitted to an annual tax of about twenty milliondollars. The real difficulty lay in the character of the Confederation.Congress might contrive but it could not command. The States mightagree, or they might disagree, or any two or more of them might onlyagree to disagree; and they were more likely to do either of the lasttwo than the first. There was no power of coercion anywhere. All thatCongress could do was to try to frame laws that would reconciledifferences, and bring thirteen supreme governments upon some commonground of agreement. To distract and perplex it still more, it stoodface to face with a well-disciplined and veteran army which might at anymoment, could it find a leader to its mind, march upon Philadelphia anddeal with Congress as Cromwell dealt with the Long Parliament. Therewere some men, probably, in that body, who would not have been sorry tosee that precedent followed. Washington might have done it if he would.Gates probably would have done it if he could.To avert this threatened danger; to contrive taxation that should sofar please the taxed that they would refrain from using the power intheir hands to escape altogether any taxation for general purposes,--wasthe knotty problem this Congress had to solve in order to save theConfederacy from dissolution. There was no want of plans and expedients;neither were there wanting men in that body who clearly understood theconditions of the problem, and how it might be solved, and whose aim wasdirect and unfaltering. Chief among them were Hamilton, Wilson,Ellsworth, and Madison. However wrong-headed, or weak, or intemperateothers may have been, these men were usually found together on importantquestions; differing sometimes in details, but unmoved by passion orprejudice, and strong from reserved force, they overwhelmed theiropponents at the right moment with irresistible argument and by weightof character.In the discussion of the more important questions Mr. Madison isconspicuous--conspicuous without being obtrusive. A reader of thedebates can hardly fail to be struck with his familiarity with Englishconstitutional law, and its application to the necessities of thisoffshoot of the English people in setting up a government forthemselves. The stores of knowledge he drew upon must needs have beenlaid up in the years of quiet study at home before he entered uponpublic life. For there was no congressional library then where a membercould "cram" for debate; and--though Philadelphia already had a fairpublic library--the member who was armed at all points must haveequipped himself before entering Congress. In this respect Madisonprobably had no equal, except Hamilton, and possibly Ellsworth. To theneed of such a library, however, he and others were not insensible. Aschairman of a committee he reported a list of books "proper for the useof Congress," and advised their purchase. The report declared thatcertain authorities upon international law, treaties, negotiations, andother questions of legislation were absolutely indispensable, and thatthe want of them "was manifest in several Acts of Congress." But theCongress was not to be moved by a little thing of that sort.The attitude of his own State sometimes embarrassed him in thesatisfactory discharge of his duty as a legislator. The earliestdistinction he won after entering Congress was as chairman of acommittee to enforce upon Mr. Jay, then minister to Spain, theinstructions to adhere tenaciously to the right of navigation on theMississippi in his negotiations for an alliance with that power. Mr.Madison, in his dispatch, maintained the American side of the questionwith a force and clearness to which no subsequent discussion of thesubject ever added anything. He left nothing unsaid that could be saidto sustain the right either on the ground of expediency, of nationalcomity, or of international law; and his arguments were not only inaccordance with his own convictions, but with the instructions of theAssembly of his own State. It was a question of deep interest toVirginia, whose western boundary at that time was the Mississippi. ButVirginia soon afterward shifted her position. The course of the war inthe Southern States in the winter of 1780-81 aroused in Georgia and theCarolinas renewed anxiety for an alliance with Spain. The fear of theirpeople was that, in case of the necessity for a sudden peace while theBritish troops were in possession of those States or parts of them, theymight be compelled to remain as British territory under the applicationof the rule of _uti possidetis_. It was urged, therefore, that the rightto the Mississippi should be surrendered to Spain, if it were made thecondition of an alliance. In deference to her neighbors, Virginiaproposed that Mr. Jay should be reinstructed accordingly.Mr. Madison was not in the least shaken in his conviction. With him, thequestion was one of right rather than of expediency. But not many atthat time ventured to doubt that representatives must implicitly obeythe instructions of their constituents. He yielded; but not till he hadappealed to the Assembly to reconsider their decision. The scale wasturned; in deference to the wishes of the Southern States new orderswere sent to Mr. Jay. Mr. Madison, however, had not long to wait for hisjustification. When the immediate danger, which had so alarmed theSouth, had passed away, Virginia returned to her original position. Newinstructions were again sent to her representatives, and Mr. Jay wasonce more advised by Congress that on the Mississippi question hisgovernment would yield nothing.On another question, two years afterward, Mr. Madison refused to accepta position of inconsistency in obedience to instructions which his Stateattempted to force upon him. No one saw more clearly than he howabsolutely necessary to the preservation of the Confederacy was thesettlement of its financial affairs on some sound and just basis; and noone labored more earnestly and more intelligently than he to bring aboutsuch a settlement. Congress had proposed in 1781 a tax upon imports,each State to appoint its own collectors, but the revenue to be paidover to the federal government to meet the expenses of the war. RhodeIsland alone, at first, refused her assent to this scheme. An impost lawof five per cent. upon certain imports and a specific duty upon othersfor twenty-five years were an essential part of the plan of 1783 toprovide a revenue to meet the interest on the public debt and for othergeneral purposes. That Rhode Island would continue obstinate on thispoint was more than probable; and the only hope of moving her was thatshe should be shamed or persuaded into compliance by the combinedinfluence of all the other States.Mr. Madison was as bitter as he could ever be in his reflections uponthat State, whose course, he thought, showed a want of any sense ofhonor or of patriotism. Virginia, he argued, should rebuke her by makingher own compliance with the law the more emphatic, as an example for allthe rest. But Virginia did exactly the other thing. At the moment whendebate upon the revenue law was the most earnest, and the prospect ofcarrying it the most hopeful; when a committee appointed by Congress hadalready started on their journey northward to expostulate with, and ifpossible conciliate, Rhode Island,--at that critical moment came newsfrom Virginia that she had revoked her assent of a previous session tothe impost law. This was equivalent to instructing her delegates inCongress to oppose any such measure. The situation was an awkward onefor a representative who had put himself among the foremost of those whowere pushing this policy, and who had been making invidious reflectionsupon a State which opposed it. The rule that the will of theconstituents should govern the representative, he now declared, had itsexceptions, and here was a case in point. He continued to enforce thenecessity of a general law to provide a revenue, though his argumentswere no longer pointed with the selfishness and want of patriotism shownby the people of Rhode Island. In the end his firmness was justified byVirginia, who again shifted her position when the new act was submittedto her.The operation of the law was limited to five and twenty years. ThisHamilton opposed and Madison supported; and in this difference some ofthe biographers of both see the foreshadowing of future parties. But itis more likely that neither of those statesmen thought of theirdifference of opinion as difference of principle. The question was,whether anything could be gained by a deference to that party which,both felt at that time, threatened to throw away, in adhering to thestate-rights doctrine, all that was gained by the Revolution. They wereagreed upon the necessity of a general law, supreme in all the States,to meet the obligation of a debt contracted for the general good.Unless--wrote Madison in February--"unless some amicable and adequatearrangements be speedily taken for adjusting all the subsisting accountsand discharging the public engagements, a dissolution of the Union willbe inevitable." He was willing, therefore, to temporize, that thenecessary assent of the State to such a law might be gained. Nobodyhoped that the public debt would be paid off in twenty-five years; butto assume to levy a federal tax in the States for a longer period, ortill the debt should be discharged, might so arouse state jealousy thatit would be impossible to get an assent to the law anywhere. If the lawfor twenty-five years should be accepted, the threatened destruction ofthe government would be escaped for the present, and it might, at theend of a quarter of a century, be easy to re?nact the law. At any rate,the evil day would be put off. This was Madison's reasoning.But Hamilton did not believe in putting off a crisis. He had no faith inthe permanency of the government as then organized. If he were right,what was the use or the wisdom of postponing a catastrophe tillto-morrow? A possible escape from it might be even more difficultto-morrow than to-day. The essential difference between the two men was,that Madison only feared what Hamilton positively knew, or thought heknew. It was a difference of faith. Madison hoped something would turnup in the course of twenty-five years. Hamilton did not believe thatanything good could turn up under the feeble rule of the Confederation.He would have presented to the States, then and there, the question,Would they surrender to the confederate government the right of taxationso long as that government thought it necessary? If not, then theConfederation was a rope of sand, and the States had resolved themselvesinto thirteen separate and independent governments. Therefore he opposedthe condition of twenty-five years, and voted against the bill.Nevertheless, when it became the law he gave it his heartiest support,and was appointed one of a committee of three to prepare an address,which Madison wrote, to commend it to the acceptance of the States.Indeed, the last serious effort made on behalf of the measure was madeby Hamilton, who used all his eloquence and influence to induce thelegislature of his own State to ratify it. It was the law against hisbetter judgment; but being the law, he did his best to secure itsrecognition. But it failed of hearty support in most of the States,while in New York and Pennsylvania compliance with it was absolutelyrefused. Nothing, therefore, would have been lost had Hamilton'sfirmness prevailed in Congress; and nothing was gained by Madison'sdeference to the doctrine of state rights, unless it was that thequestion of a "more perfect Union" was put off to a more propitioustime, when a reconstruction of the government under a new federalConstitution was possible. Meanwhile Congress borrowed the money to paythe interest on money already borrowed; the confederate governmentfloundered deeper and deeper into inextricable difficulties; thethirteen ships of state drifted farther and farther apart, with a fairpromise of a general wreck.But the bill contained another compromise which was not temporary, andonce made could not be easily unmade. Agreed to now, it became acondition of the adoption of the federal Constitution four years later;and there, as nobody now is so blind as not to see, it was the source ofinfinite mischief for nearly a century, till a third reconstruction ofthe Union was brought about by the war of 1861-65. The Articles ofConfederation required that "all charges of war and all other expensesthat shall be incurred for the common defense or general welfare" shouldbe borne by the States in proportion to the value of their lands. It wasproposed to amend this provision of the Constitution, and for landssubstitute population, exclusive of Indians not taxed, as the basis fortaxation. But here arose at once a new and perplexing question. Therewere, chiefly in one portion of the country, about 750,000 "persons heldto service or labor,"--the euphuism for negro slaves which, evolved fromsome tender and sentimental conscience, came into use at this period.Should these, recognized only as property by state law, be counted as750,000 persons by the laws of the United States?[5] Or should they, inthe enumeration of population, be reckoned, in accordance with the civillaw, as _pro nullis_, _pro mortuis_, _pro quadrupedibus_, and thereforenot to be counted at all? Or should they, as those who owned theminsisted, be counted, if included in the basis of taxation, as fractionsof persons only?The South contended that black slaves were not equal to white men asproducers of wealth, and that, by counting them as such, taxation wouldbe unequal and unjust. But whether counted as units or as fractions ofunits, the slaveholders insisted that representation should be accordingto that enumeration. The Northern reply was that, if representation wasto be according to population, the slaves being included, then the slaveStates would have a representation of property, for which there would beno equivalent in States where there were no slaves; but if slaves wereenumerated as a basis of representation, then that enumeration shouldalso be taken to fix the rate of taxation.Here, at any rate, was a basis for an interesting deadlock. One simpleway out of it would have been to insist upon the doctrine of the civillaw; to count the slaves only as _pro quadrupedibus_, to be left out ofthe enumeration of population as being no part of the State, as horsesand cattle were left out. But the bonds of union hung loosely upon thesisters a hundred years ago; there was not one of them who did not thinkshe was able to set up for herself and take her place among the nationsas an independent sovereign; and it is more than likely that half ofthem would have refused to wear those bonds any longer on such acondition. There was no apprehension then that slavery was to become apower for evil in the State; but there was intense anxiety lest theStates should fly asunder, form partial and local unions amongneighbors, or become entangled in alliances with foreign nations, at thesacrifice of all, or much, that was gained by the Revolution. To makeany concession, therefore, to slavery for the sake of the Union washardly held to be a concession.The curious student of history, however, who loves to study thoseproblems of what might have happened if events that did not happen hadcome to pass, will find ample room for speculation in the possibilitiesof this one. Had there been no compromise, it is as easy to see now, asit was easy to foresee then, how quickly the feeble bond of union wouldhave snapped asunder. But nevertheless, if the North had insisted thatthe slaves should neither be counted nor represented at all, or elseshould be reckoned in full and taxes levied accordingly, the consequentdissolution of the Confederacy might have had consequences which thennobody dreamed of. For it is not impossible, it is not even improbable,that, in that event, the year 1800 would have seen slavery in theprocess of rapid extinction everywhere except in South Carolina andGeorgia. Had the event been postponed in those States to a later period,it would only have been because they had already found in thecultivation of indigo and rice a profitable use for slave-labor, whichdid not exist in the other slave States, where the supply of slaves wasrapidly exceeding the demand. There can hardly be a doubt that, in caseof the dissolution of the Confederacy, the Northern free-labor Stateswould soon have consolidated into a strong union of their own. There wasevery reason for hastening it, and none so strong for hindering it asthose which were overborne in the union which was actually formed soonafterward between the free-labor and slave-labor States. To such aNorthern union the border States, as they sloughed off the old system,would have been naturally attracted; nor can there be a doubt that afederal union so formed would ultimately have proved quite as strong,quite as prosperous, quite as happy, and quite as respectable among thenations, as one purchased by compromises with slavery, followed, asthose compromises were, by three quarters of a century of bitterpolitical strife ending in a civil war.But the Northern members were no less ready to make compromises thanSouthern members were to insist upon them, these no more understandingwhat they conceded than those understood what they gained; for thefuture was equally concealed from both. A committee reported that twoblacks should be rated as one free man. This was unsatisfactory. To someit seemed too large, to others too small. Other ratios, therefore, wereproposed,--three to one, three to two, four to one, and four to three.Mr. Madison at last, "in order," as he said, "to give a proof of thesincerity of his professions of liberality,"--and doubtless he meant tobe liberal,--proposed "that slaves should be rated as five to three."His motion was adopted, but afterward reconsidered. Four dayslater--April 1st--Mr. Hamilton renewed the proposition, and it wascarried, Madison says, "without opposition."[6] The law on this pointwas the precedent for the mischievous three fifths rule of theConstitution adopted four years later.Youth finally overtook the young man during the last winter of his termin Congress, for he fell in love. But it was an unfortunate experience,and the outcome of it doubtless gave a more sombre hue than ever to hislife. His choice was not a wise one. Probably Mr. Madison seemed a mucholder man than he really was at that period of his life, and to a younggirl may have appeared really advanced in years. At any rate, it was hisunhappy fate to be attached to a young lady of more than usual beautyand of irrepressible vivacity,--Miss Catherine Floyd, a daughter ofGeneral William Floyd of Long Island, N. Y., who was one of the signersof the Declaration of Independence, and who was a delegate to Congressfrom 1774 to 1783. Miss Catherine's sixteenth birthday was in April ofthe latter year; Madison was double her age, as his thirty-secondbirthday was a month earlier. His suit, however, was accepted, and theybecame engaged. But it was the father rather than the daughter whoadmired the suitor; for the older statesman better understood thecharacter, and better appreciated the abilities, of his young colleague,and predicted a brilliant career for him. The girl's wisdom was ofanother kind. The future career which she foresaw and wanted to sharebelonged to a young clergyman, who--according to the reminiscences of anaged relative of hers--"hung round her at the harpsichord," and madelove in quite another fashion than that of the solemn statesman whomthe old general so approved of. It is altogether a pretty love story,and one's sympathy goes out to the lively young beauty, who was thinkingof love and not of ambition, as she turned from the old young gentleman,discussing, with her wise father, the public debt and the necessity ofan impost, to that really young young gentleman who knew how to hangover the harpsichord, and talked more to the purpose with his eyes thanever the other could with his lips. There is a tradition that she wasencouraged to be thus on with the new love before she was off with theold, by a friend somewhat older than herself; and possibly this maturerlady may have thought that Madison would be better mated with one nearerhis own age. At any rate, the engagement was broken off before long bythe dismissal of the older lover, much to the father's disappointment,and in due time the young lady married the other suitor. There is noreason that I know of for supposing that she ever regretted that hermore humble home was in a rectory, when it might have been, in due time,had she chosen differently, in the White House at Washington, and thatafterward she might have lived, the remaining sixteen years of her life,the honored wife of a revered ex-President. Perhaps, however, she smiledin those later years at the recollection of having laughed in her gayand thoughtless youth at her solemn lover, and that, when at last shedismissed him, she sealed her letter--conveying to him alone, it maybe, some merry but mischievous meaning--with a bit of rye-dough.[7]Mr. Rives gives a letter from Jefferson to Madison at this time, whichshows that he stood in need of consolation from his friends. "Isincerely lament," Mr. Jefferson wrote in his philosophical way, "themisadventure which has happened, from whatever cause it may havehappened. Should it be final, however, the world presents the same andmany other resources of happiness, and you possess many within yourself.Firmness of mind and unintermitting occupation will not long leave youin pain. No event has been more contrary to my expectations, and thesewere founded on what I thought a good knowledge of the ground. But ofall machines ours is the most complicated and inexplicable." It wasSolomon who said, "there be three things which are too wonderful for me,yea, four which I know not." This fourth was, "the way of a man with amaid." He might have added a fifth,--the way of a maid with a man,which, evidently, is what Jefferson meant.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 5: In some of the States slaves were reckoned as "chattelspersonal;" in others as "real estate."][Footnote 6: J. C. Hamilton says, in his _History of the Republic_, that"the motion prevailed by a vote of all the States exceptingMassachusetts and Rhode Island." But his understanding of the questionis in other respects incorrect,--misunderstood, one may hope, ratherthan misstated lest he should give credit, for what he considered ameritorious action, to Madison.][Footnote 7: For the details, so far as they can now be recalled, ofthis single romantic incident in Mr. Madison's life, I am indebted toNicoll Floyd, Esq., of Moriches, Long Island, a great-grandson ofGeneral William Floyd.]CHAPTER IVIN THE STATE ASSEMBLYAs the election of the same delegate to Congress for consecutivesessions was then forbidden by the law of Virginia, Mr. Madison was notreturned to that body in 1784. For a brief interval of three months hemade good use of his time, we are told, by continuing his law studies,till in the spring of that year he was chosen to represent his county inthe Virginia Assembly. It may be that "the sentiments and manners of theparent nation," which he lamented seven years before, had passed away,and nobody now insisted upon the privilege of getting drunk at thecandidate's expense before voting for him. But it is more likely thatthe electors had not changed. The difference was in the candidate; theydid not need to be allured to give their votes to a man whom they wereproud to call upon to represent the county. Mr. Madison's reputation wasalready made by his three years in Congress, and he now easily took aplace among the political leaders of his own State.The position was hardly less conspicuous or less influential than thatwhich he had held in the national Congress. What each State might dowas of quite as much importance as anything the federal government mightor could do. Congress could neither open nor close a single port inVirginia to commerce, whether domestic or foreign, without the consentof the State; it could not levy a tax of a penny on anything, whethergoods coming in or products going out, if the State objected. As amember of Congress, Mr. Madison might propose or oppose any of thesethings; as a member of the Virginia House of Delegates, he might, if hisinfluence was strong enough, carry or forbid any or all of them,whatever might be the wishes of Congress. It was in the power ofVirginia to influence largely the welfare of her neighbors, so far as itdepended upon commerce, and indirectly that of every State in the Union.In the Assembly, as in Congress, Mr. Madison's aim was to increase thepowers of the federal government, for want of which it was rapidlysinking into imbecility and contempt. "I acceded," he says, "to thedesire of my fellow-citizens of the county that I should be one of itsrepresentatives in the legislature," to bring about "a rescue of theUnion and the blessings of liberty staked on it from an impendingcatastrophe." Early in the session the Assembly assented to theamendment to the Articles of Confederation proposed at the late sessionof Congress, which substituted population for a land valuation as thebasis of representation and of taxation. The Assembly also asserted thatall requisitions upon the States for the support of the generalgovernment and to provide for the public debt should be complied with,and payment of balances on old accounts should be enforced; and itassented to the recommendation of Congress that that body should havepower for a limited period to control the trade with foreign nationshaving no treaty with the United States, in order that it mightretaliate upon Great Britain for excluding American ships from her WestIndia colonies. All these measures were designed for "the rescue of theUnion," and they had, of course, Madison's hearty support. For it wasabsolutely essential, as he believed, that something should be done ifthe Union was to be saved, or to be made worth saving. But there wereobstacles on all sides. The commercial States were reluctant tosurrender the control over trade to Congress; in the planting Statesthere was hardly any trade that could be surrendered. In Virginia thetobacco planter still clung to the old ways. He liked to have theEnglish ship take his tobacco from the river bank of his own plantation,and to receive from the same vessel such coarse goods as were needed toclothe his slaves, with the more expensive luxuries for his ownfamily,--dry goods for his wife and daughter; the pipe of madeira, thecoats and breeches, the hats, boots, and saddles for himself and hissons. He knew that this year's crop went to pay--if it did pay--for lastyear's goods, and that he was always in debt. But the debt was onrunning account, and did not matter. The London factor was skillful incharges for interest and commissions, and the account for this year wasalways a lien on next year's crop. He knew, and the planter knew, thatthe tobacco could be sold at a higher price in New York or Philadelphiathan the factor got, or seemed to get, for it in London; that the goodssent out in exchange were charged at a higher price than they could bebought for in the Northern towns. Nevertheless, the planter liked to seehis own hogsheads rolled on board ship by his own negroes at his ownwharf, and receive in return his own boxes and bales shipped direct fromLondon at his own order, let it cost what it might. It was a shiftlessand ruinous system; but the average Virginia planter was not over-quickat figures, nor even at reading and writing. He was proud of being lordof a thousand or two acres, and one or two hundred negroes, and fanciedthat this was to rule over, as Mr. Rives called it, "a mimiccommonwealth, with its foreign and domestic relations, and its regularadministrative hierarchy." He did not comprehend that the isolated lifeof a slave plantation was ordinarily only a kind of perpetual barbecue,with its rough sports and vacuous leisure, where the roasted ox waslargely wasted and not always pleasant to look at. There was a rudehospitality, where food, provided by unpaid labor, was cheap andabundant, and where the host was always glad to welcome any guest whowould relieve him of his own tediousness; but there was little luxuryand no refinement where there was almost no culture. Of course therewere a few homes and families of another order, where the women wererefined and the men educated; but these were the exceptions. Societygenerally, with its bluff, loud, self-confident but ignorant planters,its numerous poor whites destitute of lands and of slaves, and its massof slaves whose aim in life was to avoid work and escape the whip, wasnecessarily only one remove from semi-civilization.It was not easy to indoctrinate such a people, more arrogant thanintelligent, with new ideas. By the same token it might be possible tolead them into new ways before they would find out whither they weregoing. Mr. Madison hoped to change the wretched system of plantationcommerce by a port bill, which he brought into the Assembly. Impostsrequire custom-houses, and obviously there could not be custom-housesnor even custom-officers on every plantation in the State. The billproposed to leave open two ports of entry for all foreign ships. Itwould greatly simplify matters if all the foreign trade of the Statecould be limited to these two ports only. It would then be easy enoughto enforce imposts, and the State would have something to surrender tothe federal government to help it to a revenue, if, happily, the timeshould ever come when all the States should assent to that measure ofsalvation for the Union. Not that this was the primary object of thosewho favored this port law; but the question of commerce was thequestion on which everything hinged, and its regulation in each Statemust needs have an influence, one way or the other, upon the possibilityof strengthening, even of preserving, the Union. Everything dependedupon reconciling these state interests by mutual concessions. The Southwas jealous of the North, because trade flourished at the North and didnot flourish at the South. It seemed as if this was at the expense ofthe South, and so, in a certain sense, it was. The problem was to findwhere the difficulty lay, and to apply the remedy.If commerce flourished at the North, where each of the States had one ortwo ports of entry only, why should it not flourish in Virginia ifregulated in the same way? If those centres of trade bred a race ofmerchants, who built their own ships, bought and sold, did their owncarrying, competed with and stimulated each other, and encroached uponthe trade of the South, why should not similar results follow inVirginia if she should confine her trade to two or three ports? If thebuyer and the seller, the importer and the consumer, went to a commonplace of exchange in Philadelphia, New York, and Boston, and prosperityfollowed as a consequence, why should they not do the same thing atNorfolk? This was what Madison aimed to bring about by the port bill.But it was impossible to get it through the legislature till three moreports were added to the two which the bill at first proposed. When theplanters came to understand that such a law would take away theircherished privilege of trade along the banks of the rivers, whereveranybody chose to run out a little jetty, the opposition was persistent.At every succeeding session, till the new federal Constitution wasadopted, an attempt was made to repeal the act; and though that was notsuccessful, each year new ports of entry were added. It did not, indeed,matter much whether the open ports of Virginia were two or whether theywere twenty. There was a factor in the problem which neither Mr. Madisonnor anybody else would take into the account. It was possible, ofcourse, if force enough were used, to break up the traffic with Englishships on the banks of the rivers; but when that was done, commerce wouldfollow its own laws, in spite of the acts of the legislature, and flowinto channels of its own choosing. It was not possible to transmute aplanting State, where labor was enslaved, into a commercial State, wherelabor must be free.However desirous Mr. Madison might be to transfer the power overcommerce to the federal government, he was compelled, as a member of theVirginia legislature, to care first for the trade of his own State. NoState could afford to neglect its own commercial interests so long asthe thirteen States remained thirteen commercial rivals. It was becomingplainer and plainer every day that, while that relation continued, theless chance there was that thirteen petty, independent States couldunite into one great nation. No foreign power would make a treaty with agovernment which could not enforce that treaty among its own people.Neither could any separate portion of that people make a treaty, as anyother portion, the other side of an imaginary line, need not hold it inrespect. What good was there in revenue laws, or, indeed, in any otherlaws in Massachusetts which Connecticut and Rhode Island disregarded? orin New York, if New Jersey and Pennsylvania laughed at them? or inVirginia, if Maryland held them in contempt?But Mr. Madison felt that, if he could bring about a healthful state ofthings in the trade of his own State, there was at least so much donetowards bringing about a healthful state of things in the commerce ofthe whole country. There came up a practical, local question which, whenthe time came, he was quick to see had a logical bearing upon thegeneral question. The Potomac was the boundary line between Virginia andMaryland; but Lord Baltimore's charter gave to Maryland jurisdictionover the river to the Virginia bank; and this right Virginia hadrecognized, claiming only for herself the free navigation of the Potomacand the Pocomoke. Of course the laws of neither State were regarded whenit was worth while to evade them; and nothing was easier than to evadethem, since to the average human mind there is no privilege so preciousas a facility for smuggling. Nobody, at any rate, seems to have thoughtanything about the matter till it came under Madison's observation afterhis return home from Congress. To him it meant something more than mereevasion of state laws and frauds on the state revenue. The subject fellinto line with his reflections upon the looseness of the bonds that heldthe States together, and how unlikely it was that they would ever growinto a respectable or prosperous nation while their present relationscontinued. Virtually there was no maritime law on the Potomac, andhardly even the pretense of any. What could be more absurd than toprovide ports of entry on one bank of a river, while on the other bank,from the source to the sea, the whole country was free to all comers? Ifthe laws of either State were to be regarded on the opposite bank, atreaty was as necessary between them as between any two contiguousstates in Europe.Madison wrote to Jefferson, who was now a delegate in Congress, pointingout this anomalous condition of things on the Potomac, and suggestingthat he should confer with the Maryland delegates upon the subject. Theproposal met with Jefferson's approbation; he sought an interview withMr. Stone, a delegate from Maryland, and, as he wrote to Madison,"finding him of the same opinion, [I] have told him I would, by letters,bring the subject forward on our part. They will consider it, therefore,as originated by this conversation." Why "they" should not have beenpermitted to "consider it as originated" from Madison's suggestion thatJefferson should have such a conversation is not quite plain; for it wasMadison, not Jefferson, who had discovered that here was a wrong thatought to be righted, and who had proposed that each State should appointcommissioners to look into the matter and apply a remedy. So, also, sofar as subsequent negotiation on this subject had any influence inbringing about the Constitutional Convention of 1787, it was onlybecause Mr. Madison, having suggested the first practical step in theone case, seized an opportune moment in that negotiation to suggest asimilar practical step in the other case. As it is so often said thatthe Annapolis Convention of 1786 was the direct result of the discussionof the Potomac question, it is worth while to explain what they reallyhad to do with each other.The Virginia commissioners were appointed early in the session on Mr.Madison's motion. Maryland moved more slowly, and it was not till thespring of 1785 that the commissioners met. They soon found that anyefficient jurisdiction over the Potomac involved more interests thanthey, or those who appointed them, had considered. Existing difficultiesmight be disposed of by agreeing upon uniform duties in the two States,and this the commissioners recommended. But when the subject came beforethe Maryland legislature it took a wider range.The Potomac Company, of which Washington was president, had beenchartered only a few months before. The work it proposed to do was tomake the upper Potomac navigable, and to connect it by a good road withthe Ohio River. This was to encourage the settlement of Western lands.Another company was chartered about the same time to connect the Potomacand Delaware by a canal, where interstate traffic would be moreimmediate. Pennsylvania and Delaware must necessarily have a deepinterest in both these projects, and the Maryland legislature proposedthat those States be invited to appoint commissioners to act with thosewhom Maryland and Virginia had already appointed to settle the conflictbetween them upon the question of jurisdiction on the Potomac. Then itoccurred to somebody: if four States can confer, why should notthirteen? The Maryland legislature thereupon suggested that all theStates be invited to send delegates to a convention to take up the wholequestion of American commerce.While this was going on in Maryland, the Virginia legislature wasconsidering petitions from the principal ports of the State praying thatsome remedy might be devised for the commercial evils from which theywere all suffering. The port bill had manifestly proved a failure. Itwas only a few weeks before that Madison had complained, in a letter toa friend, that "the trade of the country is in a most deplorablecondition;" that the most "shameful frauds" were committed by theEnglish merchants upon those in Virginia, as well as upon the planterswho shipped their own tobacco; that the difference in the price oftobacco at Philadelphia and in Virginia was from eleven shillings tofourteen shillings in favor of the Northern ports; and that "the priceof merchandise here is, at least, as much above, as that of tobacco isbelow, the Northern standard." He was only the more confirmed in hisopinion that there was no cure for these radical evils except tosurrender to the confederate government complete control over commerce.The debate upon these petitions was hot and long. It brought out thestrongest men on both sides, Madison leading those who wished to give toCongress the power to regulate trade with foreign countries when notreaty existed; to make uniform commercial laws for all the States; andto levy an impost of five per cent. on imported merchandise, as aprovision for the public debt and for the support of the federalgovernment generally. A committee, of which he was a member, at lengthreported instructions to the delegates of the State in Congress to laborfor the consent of all the States to these propositions. But inCommittee of the Whole the resolutions were so changed andqualified--especially in limiting to thirteen years the period for whichCongress was to be intrusted with a power so essential to the existenceof the government--that the measure was given up by its friends ashopeless.But before the report was disposed of Mr. Madison prepared aresolution, to be offered as a substitute, with the hope of reaching thesame end in another way. This resolution provided for the appointment offive commissioners,--Madison to be one of them,--"who, or any three ofwhom, shall meet such commissioners as may be appointed in the otherStates of the Union, at a time and place to be agreed on, to take intoconsideration the trade of the United States; to examine the relativesituations and trade of said States; to consider how far a uniformsystem in their commercial regulations may be necessary to their commoninterest and their permanent harmony; and to report to the severalStates such an act, relative to this great object, as, when unanimouslyratified by them, will enable the United States, in Congress,effectually to provide for the same." This he was careful not to offerhimself, but, as he says, it was "introduced by Mr. Tyler, aninfluential member, who, having never served in Congress, had more theear of the House than those whose services there exposed them to animputable bias." He adds that "it was so little acceptable that it wasnot then persisted in."About the same time the action of the Maryland legislature on thePotomac question, and the report of the Potomac commissioners, came upfor consideration. Mr. Madison said afterward that, as Maryland thoughtthe concurrence of Pennsylvania and Delaware were necessary to theregulation of trade on that river, so those States would, probably,wish to ask for the concurrence of their neighbors in any proposedarrangement. "So apt and forcible an illustration," he adds, "of thenecessity of an uniformity throughout all the States could not but favorthe passage of a resolution which proposed a convention having that forits object."As one of the Potomac commissioners, he knew, of course, what was comingfrom Maryland, and "how apt and forcible an illustration" it would seem,when it did come, of that resolution which he had written and hadinduced Mr. Tyler to offer. It did not matter that the resolution hadbeen at the moment "so little acceptable," and therefore "not thenpersisted in." It was where it was sure, in the political slang of ourday, to do the most good. And so it came about. All that Maryland hadproposed, growing out of the consideration of the Potomac question, theVirginia legislature acceded to. Then, on the last day of the session,the Madison-Tyler resolution was taken from the table, where it had lainquietly for nearly two months, and passed. If some, who had beencontending all winter against any action which should lead to apossibility of strengthening the federal government, failed to see howimportant a step they had taken to that very end; if any, who werefearful of federal usurpation and tenacious of state rights, were blindto the fact that the resolution had pushed aside the Potomac questionand put the Union question in its place, Mr. Madison, we may be sure,was not one of that number. He had gained that for which he had beenstriving for years.The commissioners appointed by the resolution soon came together. Theyappointed Annapolis as the place, and the second Monday of the followingSeptember (1786) as the time, of the proposed national convention; andthey sent to all the other States an invitation to send delegates tothat convention.On September 11 commissioners from Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania, NewJersey, and New York assembled at Annapolis. Others had been appointedby North Carolina, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire, butthey were not present. Georgia, South Carolina, Maryland, andConnecticut had taken no action upon the subject. As five States onlywere represented, the commissioners "did not conceive it advisable toproceed on the business of their mission," but they adopted an address,written by Alexander Hamilton, to be sent to all the States.All the represented States, the address said, had authorized theircommissioners "to take into consideration the trade and commerce of theUnited States; to consider how far an uniform system in their commercialintercourse and regulations might be necessary to their common interestand permanent harmony." But New Jersey had gone farther than this; herdelegates were instructed "to consider how far an uniform system intheir commercial regulations _and other important matters_ might benecessary to the common interest and permanent harmony of the severalStates." This, the commissioners present thought, "was an improvement onthe original plan, and will deserve to be incorporated into that of afuture convention." They gave their reasons at length for this opinion,and, in conclusion, urged that commissioners from all the States beappointed to meet in convention at Philadelphia on the second Monday ofthe following May (1787), "to devise such further provisions as shallappear to them necessary to render the Constitution of the federalgovernment adequate to the exigencies of the Union."In the course of the winter delegates to this convention were chosen bythe several States. Virginia was the first to choose her delegates;Madison was among them, and at their head was George Washington.CHAPTER VIN THE VIRGINIA LEGISLATUREThat the Annapolis Convention ever met to make smooth the way for themore important one which came together eight months afterward and frameda permanent Constitution for the United States was unquestionably due tothe persistence and the political adroitness of Mr. Madison. But it wasnot exceptional work. The same diligence and devotion to public dutymark the whole of this period of three years through which he continueda member of the state legislature. As chairman of the judiciarycommittee he reduced with much labor the old colonial statutes to a bodyof laws befitting the condition of free citizens in an independentState. From his first to his last session he contended, though withoutsuccess, for the faith of treaties and the honest payment of debts. Thetreaty with England provided that there should be "no lawful impedimenton either side to the recovery of debts heretofore contracted." Thelegislature notified Congress that it should disregard this provision,on the plea that in relation to "slaves and other property" it had notbeen observed by Great Britain. Mr. Madison did not then know that--ashe said three years later--"the infractions [of the treaty] on the partof the United States preceded even the violation on the other side inthe instance of the negroes." He maintained, nevertheless, that thesettlement of the difficulty, if it had any real foundation, belonged toCongress, the party to the treaty, and not to a State which hadsurrendered the treaty-making power; and that in common honesty oneplanter was not relieved from his obligation to pay a London merchantfor goods and merchandise received before the war, because otherplanters had not been paid for the negroes and horses they had lost whenthe British troops invaded Virginia. At each of the three sessions ofthe legislature, while he was a member, he tried to bring that body toadopt some line of conduct which should not--to use his ownwords--"extremely dishonor us and embarrass Congress." It was useless;the repudiators were quite deaf to any appeals either to their honor ortheir patriotism.On another question both he and his State were more fortunate. Religiousfreedom had to be once more fought for, and he was quick to come to thedefense of a right which had first called forth his youthful enthusiasm.Two measures were brought forward from session to session to secure forthe church the support of the state. The first was a bill for theincorporation of religious societies; but when it was pushed to itsfinal passage it provided for the incorporation of Episcopal churchesonly. For this Mr. Madison consented to vote, though with reluctance, inthe hope that the church party would be so far satisfied with thismeasure as to abstain from pushing another which was still moreobjectionable.He was disappointed. Naturally those who had carried their first pointwere the more, not the less, anxious for further success. Now it wasinsisted that there should be a universal tax "for the support ofteachers of the Christian religion." The tax-payer was to be permittedto name the religious society for the support of which he preferred tocontribute. If he declined this voluntary acquiescence in the law, themoney would be used in aid of a school; but from the tax itself nonewere to be exempt on any pretext. Madison was quick to see in such a lawthe possibility of religious intolerance, of compulsory uniformityenforced by the civil power, and of the suppression of any freedom ofconscience or opinion. The act did not define who were and who were not"teachers of the Christian religion," and that necessarily would be leftto the courts to decide. A state church would be the inevitableconsequence; for it was not to be supposed that any dominant sect wouldrest till it secured the recognition by law of its own denomination asthe sole representative of the Christian religion. To expect anythingelse was to ignore the teachings of all history.The burden of opposition and debate fell, at first, almost solely uponMadison. Some of the wisest and best men of the State were slow to see,as he saw, that religious freedom was in danger from such legislation.There was, it was said, a sad falling-off in public morality asindifference to religion increased. There was no cure, it was declared,for prevalent and growing corruption except in the culture of thereligious sentiment, and the teachers of religion, therefore, must beupheld and supported. But granting all this, Madison saw that theproposed remedy would be to give, not bread but a stone, and a stonethat would be used in return as a weapon. It was impossible to regulatereligious belief by act of the Assembly, and therefore it was worse thanfoolish to try.It was due to him that the question was postponed from one session tothe next. A copy of the bill was sent, meanwhile, into every county ofthe State for the consideration of the people, and that was aided by a"Memorial and Remonstrance," written by Madison, which was circulatedeverywhere for signature, in readiness for presentation to the nextlegislature. The bill, the memorial said, would be "a dangerous abuse ofpower," and the signers protested against it with unanswerablearguments, taking for a starting-point the assertion of the Bill ofRights, "that religion, or the duty we owe to our Creator, and themanner of discharging it, can be directed only by reason andconviction, not by force or violence." It is not at all improbable thatmany signed this remonstrance, not so much because they believed it tobe true as because it was a protest against a tax; that others were moremoved by jealousy of the power of the Episcopal Church than they were byanxiety to protect religious liberty outside of their own sects. Butwhatever the motives, the movement was too formidable to be disregarded.It was made a test question in the election of members for thelegislature of 1785-86; at that session the bill for the support ofreligious teachers was rejected, and in place of it was passed "an actfor establishing religious freedom," written by Jefferson seven yearsbefore. This provided "that no man shall be compelled to frequent orsupport any religious worship, place, or ministry whatsoever, nor shallbe enforced, restrained, molested, or burthened in his body or goods,nor shall otherwise suffer on account of his religious opinions orbelief; but that all men shall be free to profess, and by argumentmaintain, their opinions in matters of religion, and that the same shallin no wise diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil capacities."[8]In the memorial and remonstrance Madison had said: "If this freedom beabused, it is an offense against God, not against man. To God,therefore, not to man, must an account of it be rendered." If the peopleof Virginia did not clearly comprehend this doctrine in all its lengthand breadth a hundred years ago, it is not quite easy to say who werethen, or who are now, at liberty to throw stones at them. The assertionof the broadest religious freedom was no more new then than it is truethat persecution for opinion's sake is now only an ancient evil. It wasnot till fifty years after Virginia had refused to tax her citizens forthe support of religious teachers that Massachusetts repealed the lawthat had long imposed a similar burden upon her people.It was in 1786, the last year of Madison's service in the VirginiaAssembly before he returned to Congress, that the craze of paper moneybroke out again through all the States. The measure was carried in mostof them, followed in the end by the usual disastrous consequences.Madison's anxiety was great lest his own State should be carried away bythis delusion, and he led the opposition against some petitions sent tothe Assembly praying for an issue of currency. The vote against it wastoo large to be due altogether to his influence; but he gave greatstrength and concentration to the opposition. In Virginia, tobaccocertificates supplied in some measure the want of a circulating medium,and it was, therefore, easier there than in some of the other States toresist the clamor for a paper substitute for real money. A tobaccocertificate at least represented something worth money. Madison assentedto a bill which authorized the use of such certificates. But his"acquiescence," he wrote to Washington, "was extorted by a fear thatsome greater evil, under the name of relief to the people, would besubstituted." He was "far from being sure," he added, that he "didright." But no evils with which he had to reproach himself followed thatmeasure.These three years of his life were probably among the happiest, if theywere not altogether the happiest, in his long public career. There waslittle disappointment or anxiety, and evidently much genuinesatisfaction as he saw how certainly he was gaining a high place in theestimation of his fellow-citizens for his devotion to the best interestsof his native State. In the recesses of the legislature he had leisurefor studies in which he evidently found great contentment. He traveled agood deal at intervals, especially at the North; learned much of theresources and character of the people outside of Virginia, and becameacquainted with the leading men among them. Jefferson urged him to passa summer with him in Paris; and some foreign diplomatic service was opento him, had he expressed a willingness to accept it. But he preferred toknow something more of his own country while he had the leisure; and ifhis life was to be passed in public service, as now seemed probable tohim, he chose, at least for the present, to serve his country at home,where he thought he was more needed, rather than abroad. In his ordersfor books sent to Jefferson the direction of his studies is evident. Hesought largely for those which treated of the science of government; butthey were not confined to that subject. Natural history had great charmsfor him. He was a diligent student of Buffon, and was anxious to find,if possible, the plates of his thirty-one volumes, in colors, that hemight adorn the walls of his room with them. He made careful comparisonsbetween the animals of other continents, as described and portrayed bythe naturalist, and similar orders in America. All new inventionsinterested him. "I am so pleased," he writes, "with the new inventedlamp that I shall not grudge two guineas for one of them." He had seen"a pocket compass of somewhat larger diameter than a watch, and whichmay be carried in the same way. It has a spring for stopping thevibration of the needle when not in use. One of these would be veryconvenient in case of a ramble into the western country." A smalltelescope, he suggests, might be fitted on as a handle to a cane, whichmight "be a source of many little gratifications," when "in walks forexercise or amusement objects present themselves which it might bematter of curiosity to inspect, but which it was difficult or impossibleto approach." Jefferson writes him of a new invention, a pedometer; andhe wants one for his own pocket. Trifles like these show the bent of hismind; and they show a contented mind as well.While writing of important acts of the legislature of 1785, he iscareful to give other information in a letter to Jefferson, which is notuninteresting as written ninety-eight years ago, and written by him.     "I. Rumsey," he says, "by a memorial to the last session,     represented that he had invented a mechanism by which a boat might     be worked with little labor, at the rate of from twenty-five to     forty miles a day, against a stream running at the rate of ten     miles an hour, and prayed that the disclosure of his invention     might be purchased by the public. The apparent extravagance of his     pretensions brought a ridicule upon them, and nothing was done. In     the recess of the Assembly he exemplified his machinery to General     Washington and a few other gentlemen, who gave a certificate of the     reality and importance of the invention, which opened the ears of     this Assembly to a second memorial. The act gives a monopoly for     ten years, reserving a right to abolish it at any time by paying     ?10,000. The inventor is soliciting similar acts from other States,     and will not, I suppose, publish the secret till he either obtains     or despairs of them."This intelligence was evidently not unheeded by Jefferson. In writing,some months after he received it, to a friend on the application ofsteam-power to grist-mills, then lately introduced in England, he adds:"I hear you are applying the same agent in America to navigate boats,and I have little doubt but that it will be applied generally tomachines, so as to supersede the use of water-ponds, and of course tolay open all the streams for navigation." Nor does Madison seem to havebeen one of those who doubted if anything was to come of Rumsey'sinvention. All this was less than a hundred years ago, and now there isa steam-ferry between New York and Europe running about twice a day.In a similar letter, a year later, he is careful, among grave politicalmatters, to remember and report to the same friend that in the sinkingof a well in Richmond, on the declivity of a hill, there had been found,"about seventy feet below the surface, several large bones, apparentlybelonging to a fish not less than the shark; and, what is moresingular, several fragments of potter's ware in the style of theIndians. Before he [the digger] reached these curiosities he passedthrough about fifty feet of soft blue clay." Mr. Madison had only justheard of this discovery, and he had not seen the unearthed fragments.But he evidently accepts the story as true in coming from"unexceptionable witnesses." He adds, as a corroboration, that he istold by a friend from Washington County of the finding there, in thesinking of a salt-well, "of the hip-bone of the incognitum, the socketof which was about eight inches in diameter." Such things werepeculiarly interesting to Jefferson, and Madison was too devoted afriend to him to leave them unnoticed. But they were hardly lessinteresting to himself, though he had not much of Jefferson's habit ofscientific investigation. That "the potter's ware in the style of theIndians" should be found so deeply buried only seems to him "singular;"nor, indeed, is there any record, so far as we know, that thisparticular fact was any more suggestive to Jefferson, though apparentlyso likely to arouse his inquiring mind to seek for some satisfactoryexplanation. But his geological notions were too positive to admit evenof a doubt as to the age of man. Supposing a Creator, he assumed that"he created the earth at once, nearly in the state in which we see it,fit for the preservation of the beings he placed on it." Theorist as hewas himself, he had little patience with the other theorists who werealready beginning to discover in the structure of the earth the evidenceof successive geological eras. The different strata of rocks and theirinclination gave him no trouble. He explained them all by the assumptionthat "rock grows, and it seems that it grows in layers in everydirection, as the branches of trees grow in all directions." Thatevidences of the existence of man should be found with a superimposedweight of earth seventy feet in thickness would present to him nodifficulty. If the fact had specially aroused his attention he wouldhave explained it in some ingenious way as the result of accident.FOOTNOTE:[Footnote 8: With how much interest Jefferson watched the progress ofthis controversy he showed in his letters from Paris. In February, 1786,he wrote to Madison: "I thank you for the communication of theremonstrance against the assessment. Mazzei, who is now in Holland,promised me to have it published in the _Leyden Gazette_. It will do usgreat honor. I wish it may be as much approved by our Assembly as by thewisest part of Europe." Again, in December of the same year, he says:"The Virginia Act for religious freedom has been received with infiniteapprobation in Europe, and propagated with enthusiasm. I do not mean bythe governments, but by the individuals who compose them. It has beentranslated into French and Italian, has been sent to most of the courtsof Europe, and has been the best evidence of the falsehood of thosereports which stated us to be in anarchy. It is inserted in the_Encyclop?die_, and is appearing in most of the publications respectingAmerica. In fact, it is comfortable to see the standard of reason atlength erected, after so many ages, during which the human mind had beenheld in vassalage by kings, priests, and nobles; and it is honorable forus to have produced the first legislature who had the courage to declarethat the reason of man may be trusted with the formation of his ownopinions!" This latter passage is characteristic, and many who do notlike Jefferson will read between the lines the exultation of a man whowas not always careful to draw the line between religious liberty andirreligious license.]CHAPTER VIPUBLIC DISTURBANCES AND ANXIETIESIn February, 1787, Madison again took a seat in Congress. It was ananxious period. Shays's rebellion in Massachusetts had assumed ratherformidable possibilities, and seemed not unlikely to spread to otherStates. Till this storm should blow over, the important business ofCongress was to raise money and troops; in reality, to go to the help ofMassachusetts, if need should be, though the object ostensibly was toprotect a handful of people on the frontier against the Indians. It wasa striking instance of the imbecility of the government under theArticles of Confederation, that it could only undertake to suppressrebellion in a State under the pretense of doing something else whichcame within the law. Massachusetts, it is true, was quite able to dealwith her insurgents; but when Congress convened it was not known in NewYork that Lincoln had dispersed the main body of them at Petersham.Nevertheless, a like difficulty might arise at any moment in any otherof the States, where the strength to meet it might be quite inadequate.Madison's ideal still was, the Union before the States, and for thesake of the States; the whole before the parts, to save the parts; thebinding the fagot together that the sticks might not be lost. "Oursituation," he wrote to Edmund Randolph in February, "is becoming everyday more and more critical. No money comes into the federal treasury; norespect is paid to the federal authority; and people of reflectionunanimously agree that the existing Confederacy is tottering to itsfoundation. Many individuals of weight, particularly in the easterndistrict, are suspected of leaning toward monarchy. Other individualspredict a partition of the States into two or more confederacies. It ispretty certain that if some radical amendment of the single one cannotbe devised and introduced, one or the other of these revolutions, thelatter no doubt, will take place."It is not impossible that Madison himself may have had some faith inthis suspicion that "individuals of weight in the eastern district" wereinclined to a monarchy. For such suspicion, however there could belittle real foundation. There were, doubtless, men of weight who thoughtand said that monarchy was better than anarchy. There were, doubtless,impatient men then who thought and said, as there are impatient men nowwho think and say, that the rule of a king is better than the rule ofthe people. But there was no disloyalty to government by the peopleamong those who only maintained that the English in America must drawfrom the common heritage of English institutions and English law thematerial wherewith to build up the foundations of a new nation. Nointelligent and candid man doubts now that they were wise; nor would ithave been long doubted then, had it not so speedily become manifestthat, if the stigma of "British" was once affixed to a political party,any appeal from popular prejudice to reason and common sense washopeless.There were a few persons who would have done away with the divisions ofStates and establish in their place a central government. Those mostearnest in maintaining the autonomy of States declared that such agovernment was, as Luther Martin of Maryland called it, of "amonarchical nature." What else could that be but a monarchy? Aninsinuation took on the form of a logical deduction and became a popularfallacy. Yet those most earnest for a central government only sought toestablish a stable rule in place of no rule at all; or, worse still, ofthe tyranny of an ignorant and vicious mob under the outraged name ofdemocracy, into which there was danger of drifting. Whether their planwas wise or foolish, it did not mean a monarchy. Even of Shays'smisguided followers Jefferson said: "I believe you may be assured thatan idea or desire of returning to anything like their ancient governmentnever entered into their heads." As Madison knew and said, the realdanger was that the States would divide into two confederacies, and onlyby a new and wiser and stronger union could that calamity be averted.To gain the assent of most of the States to a convention was surmountingonly the least of the difficulties. Three weeks before the time ofmeeting Madison wrote: "The nearer the crisis approaches, the more Itremble for the issue. The necessity of gaining the concurrence of theconvention in some system that will answer the purpose, the subsequentapprobation of Congress, and the final sanction of the States, present aseries of chances which would inspire despair in any case where thealternative was less formidable." He said, in the first month of thesession of that body, that "the States were divided into differentinterests, not by their difference of size, but by other circumstances;the most material of which resulted partly from climate, but principallyfrom the effects of their having or not having slaves. These two causesconcurred in forming the great division of interests in the UnitedStates. It did not lie between the large and small States. It laybetween the Northern and Southern."During the earlier weeks of this session of Congress, and, indeed, forsome months before, events had made so manifest this difference ofinterest, coincident with the difference in latitude, that there seemedlittle ground for hope that any good would come out of a constitutionalconvention. The old question of the navigation of the Mississippi wasagain agitated. The South held her right to that river to be of muchmore value than anything she could gain by a closer union with theNorth, and she was quite ready to go to war with Spain in defense of it.On the other hand, the Northern States were quite indifferent to thenavigation of the Mississippi, and not disposed apparently to make anyexertion or sacrifice to secure it. Just now they were anxious to securea commercial treaty with Spain; but Spain insisted, as a preliminarycondition, that the United States should relinquish all claim tonavigation upon a river whose mouths were within Spanish territory. Inthe Northern mind there was no doubt of the value of trade with Spain;and there was a good deal of doubt whether there was anything worthcontending for in the right to sail upon a river running through awilderness where, as yet, there were few inhabitants, and hardly anytrade worth talking about. More than that, there was unquestionably anot uncommon belief at the North and East that the settlement andprosperity of the West would be at the expense of the Atlantic States.Perhaps that view of the matter was not loudly insisted upon; but manywere none the less persuaded that, if population was attracted westwardby the hope of acquiring rich and cheap lands, prosperity and powerwould go with it. At any rate, those of this way of thinking were notinclined to forego a certain good for that which would profit themnothing, and might do them lasting harm.For these reasons, spoken and unspoken, the Northern members of Congresswere at first quite willing, for the sake of a commercial treaty, toconcede to Spain the exclusive control of the Mississippi. But to pacifythe South it was proposed that the concession to Spain should be foronly five and twenty years. If at the end of that period the navigationof the Mississippi should be worth contending for, the question could bereopened. The South was, of course, rather exasperated than pacified bysuch a proposition. The navigation of the river had not only a certainvalue to them now, but it was theirs by right, and that was reasonenough for not parting with it even for a limited period. Concessionsnow would make the reassertion of the right the more difficult by andby. If it must be fought for, it would lessen the chance of success toput off the fighting five and twenty years. Indeed, it could not be putoff, for war was already begun in a small way. The Spaniards had seizedAmerican boats on trading voyages down the river, and the Americans hadretaliated upon some petty Spanish settlements. Spain, moreover, seemedat first no more inclined to listen to compromise than the South was.England watched this controversy with interest. She had no expectationof recovering for herself the Floridas, which she had lost in the war ofthe Revolution, and had finally ceded to Spain by the treaty of 1783;but she was quite willing to see that power get into trouble on theMississippi question, and more than willing that it should threaten thepeace and union of the States. Her own boundary line west of theAlleghanies might possibly be extended far south of the Great Lakes, ifthe Northern and Southern States should divide into two confederacies;but, apart from any lust of territory, she rejoiced at anything thatthreatened to check the growth of her late colonies.Fortunately, however, the question was disposed of, before theConstitutional Convention met at Philadelphia, by the failure to securea treaty. The Spanish minister, Guardoqui, consented, at length, afterlong resistance, to accept as a compromise the navigation of the riverfor five and twenty years; but Mr. Jay, who was willing, could he havehad his way, to concede anything, found at that stage of thenegotiations he could not command votes enough in Congress to secure atreaty even in that modified form. Hitherto he had relied upon aresolution passed by Congress in August, 1786, by the vote of sevenNorthern States against five Southern. This, it was assumed, repealed aresolution of the year before, and authorized the secretary to make atreaty. The resolution of the year before, August, 1785, had been passedby the votes of nine States, and was in confirmation of a provision ofthe Articles of Confederation declaring that "no treaties with foreignpowers should be entered into but by the assent of nine States." Theminority contended that such a resolution could not be repealed by thevote of only seven States, for that would be to violate a fundamentalcondition of the Articles of Confederation. It is easy to see now thatthere ought not to have been a difference among honorable men on such apoint as that. Nevertheless Mr. Jay, supported by some of the strongestNorthern men, held that the votes of seven States could be made, in aroundabout way, to authorize an act which the Constitution declaredshould never be lawful except with the assent of nine States. So thesecretary went on with his negotiations and came to terms with theSpanish minister.In April the secretary was called upon to report to Congress what wasthe position of these negotiations. Then it first publicly appeared thata treaty was actually agreed upon which gave up the right to theMississippi for a quarter of a century. But it was also speedily madeplain by various parliamentary motions that the seven votes, which thefriends of such a treaty had relied upon, had fallen from seven--evencould that number in the end have been of use--to, at best, four. TheNew Jersey delegates had been instructed not to consent to the surrenderof the American right to the use of the Mississippi; a new delegate fromPennsylvania had changed the vote of that State; and Rhode Island hadalso gone over to the other side. "It was considered, on the whole,"wrote Madison, "that the project for shutting the Mississippi was at anend."These details are not unimportant. Forty-five years afterward Madisonwrote that "his main object, in returning to Congress at this time, wasto bring about, if possible, the canceling of Mr. Jay's project forshutting the Mississippi." Probably it had occurred to nobody then thatwithin less than twenty years the Province of Louisiana would belong tothe United States, when their right to the navigation of the river couldbe no longer disputed. But so long as both its banks from thethirty-first degree of latitude southward to the Gulf remained foreignterritory, it was of the last importance to the Southern States, whoseterritory extended to the Mississippi, that the right of way should notbe surrendered. If a treaty with Spain could be carried that gave upthis right, and the Southern States should be compelled to choosebetween the loss of the Mississippi and the loss of the Union, therecould be little doubt as to what their choice would be. It was not aquestion to be postponed till after the Philadelphia Convention hadconvened; if not disposed of before, the convention might as well notmeet.Madison's letters, while the question was pending, show great anxiety.He was glad to know that the South was of one mind on this subject andwould not yield an inch. He was quite confident that his own State wouldtake the lead, as she soon did, in the firm avowal of Southern opinion.But he rejoiced that the question did not come up in the Virginialegislature till after the act was passed to send delegates to thePhiladelphia Convention. That he looked upon as a point gained, and thedelegates were presently appointed; but he still despaired of any goodcoming of the convention, unless "Mr. Jay's project for shutting theMississippi" could be first got rid of.In a recent work[9] Mr. Madison is represented as having "struck abargain" with the Kentucky delegates to the Virginia Assembly, agreeingto speak on behalf of a petition relating to the Mississippi question,provided the delegates from Kentucky--then a part of Virginia--wouldvote for the representation of Virginia at Philadelphia. A "bargain"implies an exchange of one thing for another, and Madison had noconvictions in favor of closing the Mississippi to exchange for aservice rendered on behalf of a measure for which he wished to securevotes. Moreover, no bargain was necessary. It was not easy to findanybody in Virginia who needed to be persuaded that the right to theMississippi must not be surrendered. Madison wrote to Monroe in October,1786, that it would "be defended by the legislature with as much zeal ascould be wished. Indeed, the only danger is that too much resentment maybe indulged by many against the federal councils." His only apprehensionwas lest the Mississippi question should come up in the Assembly beforethe report from the Annapolis Convention should be disposed of, for ifthat were accepted the appointment of delegates to Philadelphia wasassured. "I hope," he wrote to Washington in November, "the report willbe called for before the business of the Mississippi begins to ferment."It happened as he wished. "The recommendation from Annapolis," he wroteagain a week later, "in favor of a general revision of the federalsystem was _unanimously_ agreed to" (the emphasis is his own). Heafterward reported to Jefferson "that the project for bartering theMississippi to Spain was brought before the Assembly after the precedingmeasure had been adopted." There was neither delay nor difficulty insecuring the unanimous consent of the Assembly to resolutionsinstructing the members of Congress to oppose any concession to Spain.But Madison's anxiety was not in the least relieved by the speedyappointment of delegates to the Philadelphia Convention; for, he wrotepresently to Washington, "I am entirely convinced, from what I observehere (at Richmond), that, unless the project of Congress can bereversed, the hopes of carrying this State into a proper federal systemwill be demolished." He had already said, in the same letter, that theresolutions on the Mississippi question had been "agreed to unanimouslyin the House of Delegates," and three days before the letter was writtenthe delegates to Philadelphia had been appointed.FOOTNOTE:[Footnote 9: _A History of the People of the United States._ Vol. i. ByJohn Bach McMaster.]CHAPTER VIITHE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTIONMr. Madison is called "the Father of the Constitution." A paper writtenby him was laid before his colleagues of Virginia, before the meeting ofthe Constitutional Convention at Philadelphia, and was made the basis ofthe "Virginia plan," as it was called, out of which the Constitution wasevolved. In another way his name is so identified with it that onecannot be forgotten so long as the other is remembered. From that fulland faithful report of the proceedings of the convention, in which hisown part was so active and conspicuous, we know most that we do or evercan know of the perplexities and trials, the concessions and triumphs,the acts of wisdom and the acts of weakness, of that body of men whosecoming together time has shown to have been one of the important eventsin the history of mankind.Then it is also true that no man had worked harder, perhaps none hadworked so hard, to bring the public mind to a serious consideration ofaffairs and a recognition of the necessity of reorganizing thegovernment, if the States were to be held together. Never, it seemed,had men better reason to be satisfied with the result of their laborswhen, a few months later, the new Constitution was accepted by all theStates. Yet the time was not far distant when even Madison would be indoubt as to the character of this new bond of union, and as to what sortof government had been secured by it. Nor till he had been dead nearthirty years was it to be determined what union under the Constitutionreally meant; nor till three quarters of a century after the adoption ofthat instrument was the more perfect union formed, justice established,domestic tranquillity insured, the general welfare promoted, and theblessings of liberty secured to all the people, which by that greatcharter it was intended, in 1787, to ordain and establish. All thedifficulties, which they who framed it escaped by their work, were asnothing to those which it entailed upon their descendants.Two parties went into the convention. On one point, of course, they wereagreed, else they would never have come together at all,--that a unitedgovernment under the Articles of Confederation was a failure, and,unless some remedy should be speedily devised, States with common localinterests would gravitate into separate and perhaps antagonisticnationalities. But the differences between these two parties wereradical, and for a time seemed insurmountable. One proposed simply torepair the Articles of Confederation as they might overhaul a machinethat was out of gear; the other proposed to form an altogether newConstitution. One wanted a merely federal government; not, however,meaning by that term what the other party--soon, nevertheless, to beknown as Federalists--were striving for, but a confederation of States,each independent of all the rest and supreme in its own right, whileconsenting to unite with the rest in a limited government for theadministration of certain common interests.[10]This idea of the independence of the States was a survival of the oldcolonial system, when each colony under its distinct relation to thecrown had attained a growth of its own with its separate interests. Eachof these colonies had become a State. The Revolution had secured toeach, it was maintained, a separate independence, achieved, it was true,by united efforts, but not therefore binding them together as a singlenation. It was held as a legitimate result of that doctrine that eachState, not the people of the State, whether many or few, should berepresented by the same number of votes in a federal government as theywere under the Articles of Confederation, because such a government wasa union of States, not of a people.All men, it was argued,--going back to a state of nature,--are equallyfree and independent; and when a government is formed every man has anequal share by natural right in its formation and in its subsequentconduct. While numbers are few, every member of the State exercises hisindividual right in person, and none can rightfully do more than this,however wise, or powerful, or rich he may be. But when government by thewhole body of the people becomes cumbersome and inconvenient throughincrease of numbers, the individual citizen loses none of his rights byintrusting their exercise to representatives, in choosing andinstructing whom all have an equal voice. So when States are united in aconfederacy each State has the same relation to that government thatindividuals have to each other in a single State. They are free andequal, and none has a larger share of rights in the confederacy becauseits people are more numerous, or because it is richer or more powerful,than the rest. In such a confederacy it is not the individual citizenwho is to be represented, but the individual State. In such aconfederacy there would be the same representation for a State, say often thousand inhabitants, as for one of fifty thousand. This, it wasmaintained, preserved equality of suffrage in the equality of States;while the representation of the individual citizens of the States wouldbe in reality inequality of suffrage, because the autonomy of the Statewould be lost sight of. If in such a case it were asked what had becomeof the rights which the majority of forty thousand had inherited fromnature, the answer was that those rights were preserved and representedin the state government. The difficulty, nevertheless, remained: how toreconcile in practice this doctrine of the equal rights of States, wherethere might be a minority of persons, with the actual rights of thewhole people where, according to the underlying democratic doctrine, thegood of the whole must be decided by the larger number.Those who proposed only to amend the old Articles of Confederation, andopposed a new Constitution, objected that a government formed under sucha Constitution would be not a federal but a national government. LutherMartin said, when he returned to Maryland, that the delegates "appearedtotally to have forgot the business for which we were sent.... We hadnot been sent to form a government over the inhabitants of Americaconsidered as individuals.... That the system of government we wereintrusted to prepare was a government over these thirteen States, butthat in our proceedings we adopted principles which would be right andproper only on the supposition that there were no state governments atall, but that all the inhabitants of this extensive continent were intheir individual capacity, without government, and in a state ofnature." He added that "in the whole system there was but one federalfeature, the appointment of the senators by the States in theirsovereign capacity, that is, by their legislatures, and the equality ofsuffrage in that branch; but it was said that this feature was onlyfederal in appearance."The Senate, the second house as it was called in the convention, was inpart created, it is needless to say, to meet, or rather in obedience to,reasoning like this. There was almost nobody who would have been willingto abandon the state governments, as there was next to nobody who wanteda monarchy. "We were eternally troubled," Martin said, "with argumentsand precedents from the British government." He could not get beyond thefixed notion that those whom he opposed were determined to establish"one general government over this extensive continent, of a monarchicalnature." If he, and those who agreed with him, sincerely believed thisto be true, it was natural enough that the frequent allusions to Britishprecedents, as wise rules for American guidance in constructing agovernment, should be looked upon as an unmistakable hankering afterlost flesh-pots. Should the state governments be swept away, it might bethat, in time of danger from without or of peril from internaldissensions, the country, under "a government of a monarchical nature,"might drift back to its old allegiance. If those who feared, or saidthey feared, this were not quite sincere, the temptation was almostirresistible to use such arguments to arouse popular prejudice againstpolitical opponents. It is curious that Madison seemed quite unconsciousof how much the frequent allusions in his articles in "The Federalist"to the British Constitution might strengthen these accusations of theopposition; while he half believed that the same thing in others showedin them a leaning toward England, from which he knew that he himself wasquite free.The Luther Martin protestants were too radical to remain in theconvention to the end, when they saw that such a confederacy as theywanted was impossible. But there were not many who went the length theydid in believing that a strong central government was necessarily thedestruction of the state governments. Still fewer were those who wouldhave brought this about if they could. That the rights of the Statesmust be preserved was the general opinion and determination, and it wasnot difficult to do this by limiting the powers of the highergovernment, or federal as it soon came to be called, and by theorganization of the second house, the Senate, in which all the Stateshad an equal representation. The smaller States were satisfied with thisconcession, and the larger were willing to make it, not only for thesake of the Union, but because of the just estimate in which they heldthe rights belonging to all the States alike. The real difficulty, asMadison said in the debate on that question, and as he repeated againand again after that question was settled, was not between the largerand smaller States, but between the North and the South; between thoseStates that held slaves and those that had none.Slavery in the Constitution, which has given so much trouble to theAbolitionists of this century, and indeed to everybody else, gave quiteas much in the last century to those who put it there. Many of thewisest and best men of the time, Southerners as well as Northerners, andamong them Madison, were opposed to slavery. They could see little goodin it, hardly even any compensation for the existence of a system sofull of evil. There was hardly a State in the Union at that time thathad not its emancipation society; and there was hardly a man of anyeminence in the country who was not an officer, or at least a member, ofsuch a society. Everywhere north of South Carolina, slavery was lookedupon as a misfortune which it was exceedingly desirable to be free fromat the earliest possible moment; everywhere north of Mason and Dixon'sline, measures had already been taken, or were certain soon to be taken,to put an end to it; and by the ordinance for the government of all theterritory north of the Ohio River it was absolutely prohibited byCongress in the same year in which the Constitutional Congress met.But it was, nevertheless, a thing to the continued existence of whichthe anti-slavery people of that time could consent without any violationof conscience. Bad as it was, unwise, wasteful, cruel, a mockery ofevery pretense of respect for the rights of man, they did not believe itto be absolutely wicked. If they had so believed, let us hope they wouldhave washed their hands of it. As it was, it was only a question ofexpediency whether, for the sake of the Union, they should protect thesystem of slavery, and give to the slaveholders, as slaveholders, acertain degree of political power. To refuse to admit a slaveholdingState into the Union did not occur, probably, to the most earnestopponent of the system; for that would have been simply to say thatthere should be no Union. That was what Madison meant in saying sorepeatedly that the real difficulty in the way was, not the differencebetween the large and the small States, but the difference between theslaveholding and the non-slaveholding States. If there could be noconciliation on that point there could be no Union.Some hoped, perhaps, rather than believed, that slavery was likely todisappear ere long at the South as it was disappearing at the North. Itis an impeachment of their intelligence, however, to suppose that theyrelied much upon any such hope. The simple truth is that slavery wasthen, as it continued to be for three quarters of a century longer, theparamount interest of the South. To withstand or disregard it was notmerely difficult, but was to brave immediate possible dangers andsufferings, which are never voluntarily encountered except in obedienceto the highest sense of duty; or to meet a necessity, from which therewas no manly way of escape. The sense of absolute duty was wanting; thenecessity, it was hoped, might be avoided by concessions. It can only besaid for those who made them that they did not see what fruitful seedsof future trouble they were sowing in the Constitution.FOOTNOTE:[Footnote 10: Those who were zealous for state rights, and opposed to acentral government, called the system they wished to re?stablish aFederal System,--a confederacy of States. It was too convenient andprobably too popular a term to be lost, and the other party adopted itwhen the new Constitution was formed. _The Federalist_ was the namechosen for the volume in which were collected the papers, written firstunder the signature of "A Citizen of New York," but afterward changed to"Publius," in support of the new Constitution, by Hamilton, Madison, andJay. In one of the earlier papers Mr. Hamilton refers to the Articles ofConfederation, which were to be superseded, as the Federal Constitution;but in the later papers Madison is careful to refer to the proposed formof government as the Federal Constitution, and Federal soon came to bethe distinguishing name of the party which first came into power underthe new Constitution. Whatever may be said of Madison's other title, hisright to that of father of the Federal party can hardly be disputed.]CHAPTER VIII"THE COMPROMISES"The question with the North was, how far could it yield; with the South,how far could it encroach. It turned mainly on representation,--on "theunimportant anomaly," as Mr. George Ticknor Curtis calls it in his"History of the Constitution," "of a representation of men withoutpolitical rights or social privileges." However much they differed uponthe subject in the convention, there was nobody then and there whoregarded the question as "unimportant;" nor was there a political eventto happen for the coming eighty years that it did not influence andgenerally govern. There were some who maintained at first that the slavepopulation should not be represented at all. Hamilton proposed in thefirst days of the convention "that the rights of suffrage in thenational legislature ought to be proportioned to the number of freeinhabitants." Madison was willing to concede this in one branch of thelegislature, provided that in the representation in the other house theslaves were counted as free inhabitants. The constitution of the Senatesubsequently disposed of that proposition.But why should slaves be represented at all? "They are not free agents,"said Patterson, a delegate to the convention from New Jersey; they "haveno personal liberty, no faculty of acquiring property, but, on thecontrary, are themselves property, and, like other property, entirely atthe will of the master. Has a man in Virginia a number of votes inproportion to the number of his slaves? And if negroes are notrepresented in the States to which they belong, why should they berepresented in the general government?... If a meeting of the people wasactually to take place in a slave State, would the slaves vote? Theywould not. Why, then, should they be represented in a federalgovernment?" There could be but one reply, but that was one which itwould not have been wise to make. It was slave property that was to berepresented, and this would not be submitted to among slaveholders asagainst each other, while yet they were a unit in insisting upon it in aunion with those who were not slaveholders. Among themselves slaveryneeded no protection; their safety was in equality. But to their greatinterest every non-slaveholder was, in the nature of things, an enemy;and prudence required that the power either to vote him down or to buyhim up should never be wanting. It was as much a matter of instinct asof deliberation, for love of life is the first law. The truth wascovered up in Madison's specious assertion that "every peculiarinterest, whether in any class of citizens or any description ofStates, ought to be secured as far as possible." The only "peculiar"interest, however, belonging either to citizens or States, that wasimbedded in the Constitution, was slavery.So Wilson of Pennsylvania asked: "Are they [the slaves] admitted ascitizens--then why are they not admitted on an equality with whitecitizens? Are they admitted as property--then why is not other propertyadmitted into the computation?" He was willing, however, to concede thatit was a difficulty to be "overcome by the necessity of compromise."Never, probably, in the history of legislation, was there a more seriousquestion debated. Compromise is ordinarily understood to mean anadjustment by mutual concessions, where there are rights on both sides.Here it meant whether the side which had no shadow of right whatever tothat which it demanded would consent to take a little less than thewhole. It was the kind of compromise made between the bandit and hisvictim when the former decides that he will not put himself to thetrouble of shooting the other, and will even leave him his shirt. It wasnot difficult to understand that horses and cattle could be justlycounted only where property was to be the basis of representation. Yetthe slaves, who were counted, were, in the eye of the law, eitherpersonal property or real estate, and were no more represented ascitizens than if they also had gone upon all fours. Their enumeration,nevertheless, was carried, and it so increased the representative powerof their masters that inequality of citizenship became the fundamentalprinciple of the government. This, of course, was to form an oligarchy,not a democracy. Practically the government was put in the hands of aclass, and there it remained from the moment of the adoption of theConstitution to the rebellion of 1860; while that class, including thoseof so little consequence as to own only a slave or two, in its bestestate, probably never exceeded ten per centum of the whole people.There was, if one may venture to say so, a singular confusion in theminds of the venerable fathers of the republic on this subject. Theycould not quite get rid of the notion that the slaves, being human,ought to be included in the enumeration of population, notwithstandingthat their enumeration as citizens must necessarily disappear in theirrepresentation as chattels. Slaves, as slaves, were the wealth of theSouth, as ships, for example, were the wealth of the North; but, beinghuman, the mind was not shocked at having the slaves reckoned aspopulation in fixing the basis of representation, though in reality theyonly represented the masters' ownership. But nobody would have been at aloss to see the absurdity of counting three fifths of the Northern shipsas population. Even a Webster Whig of sixty-five years later could,perhaps, have understood that that was something more than an"unimportant anomaly." There was no clearer-headed man in theconvention than Gouverneur Morris; yet he said that he was "compelled todeclare himself reduced to the dilemma of doing injustice to theSouthern States or to human nature, and he must do it to the former." C.C. Pinckney of South Carolina declared that he was "alarmed" at such anavowal as that. Yet had the question been one of counting three fifthsof the Northern ships in the enumeration of population, Morris wouldhave discovered no "dilemma," and Pinckney nothing to be "alarmed" at.So palpable an outrage on common sense would have been merely laughed atby both.[Illustration: Charles Cotesworth Pinckney]In reply to Pinckney, however, Morris grew bolder. "It was high time,"he said, "to speak out." He came there "to form a compact for the goodof America. He hoped and believed that all would enter into suchcompact. If they would not, he was ready to join with any States thatwould. But as the compact was to be voluntary, it is in vain for theEastern States to insist on what the Southern States will never agreeto. It is equally vain for the latter to require what the other Statescan never admit, and he verily believed the people of Pennsylvania willnever agree to a representation of negroes;" of negroes, he meant,counted as human beings, not for their own representation, but, as shipsmight be counted, for the increased representation of those who heldthem as property. The next day he "spoke out" still more plainly. "Ifnegroes," he said, "were to be viewed as inhabitants, ... they ought tobe added in their entire number, and not in the proportion of threefifths. If as property, the word 'wealth' was right,"--as the basis,that is, of representation. The distinction that had been set up byMadison and others between the Northern and Southern States heconsidered as heretical and groundless. But it was persisted in, and "hesaw that the Southern gentlemen will not be satisfied unless they seethe way open to their gaining a majority in the public councils....Either this distinction [between the North and the South] is fictitiousor real; if fictitious, let it be dismissed, and let us proceed with dueconfidence. If it be real, instead of attempting to blend incompatiblethings, let us at once take a friendly leave of each other."But could they take "a friendly leave of each other"? Should a union besecured on the terms the South offered? or should it be declined, asMorris proposed, if it could not be a union of equality? The next dayMadison again set forth the real issue, quietly but unmistakably. "Itseemed now," he said, "to be pretty well understood that the realdifference of interests lay, not between the large and small, butbetween the Northern and Southern States. The institution of slavery andits consequences formed the line of discrimination." There is sometimesgreat power, as he well knew, in firm reiteration. So long as slaverylasted, the lesson he then inculcated was never forgotten.Thenceforward, as then, "the line of discrimination," in Southernpolitics, lay with "slavery and its consequences." One side would abatenothing of its demands; there could be no "friendly leave" unless thedetermination, on the other side, to overcome the desire for union andtake the consequences was equally firm.When the question again came up, however, Morris had not lost heart. Histalk was the talk of a modern abolitionist:--     "He never would concur in upholding domestic slavery. It was a     nefarious institution. It was the curse of Heaven on the States     where it prevailed. Compare the free regions of the Middle States,     where a rich and noble cultivation marks the prosperity and     happiness of the people, with the misery and poverty which     overspread the barren wastes of Virginia, Maryland, and the other     States having slaves. Travel through the whole continent, and you     behold the prospect continually varying with the appearance and     disappearance of slavery.... Proceed southwardly, and every step     you take through the great regions of slavery presents a desert     increasing with the increasing proportion of these wretched beings.     Upon what principle is it that the slaves shall be computed in the     representation? Are they men? Then make them citizens, and let them     vote. Are they property? Why then is no other property included?     The houses in this city [Philadelphia] are worth more than all the     wretched slaves who cover the rice swamps of South Carolina.... And     what is the proposed compensation to the Northern States for a     sacrifice of every principle of right, of every impulse of     humanity? They are to bind themselves to march their militia for     the defense of the Southern States, for their defense against those     very slaves of whom they complain. They must supply vessels and     seamen in case of foreign attack. The legislature will have     indefinite power to tax them by excises and duties on imports, both     of which will fall heavier on them than on the Southern     inhabitants; for the Bohea tea used by a Northern freeman will pay     more tax than the whole consumption of the miserable slave, which     consists of nothing more than his physical subsistence and the rags     that cover his nakedness.... Let it not be said that direct     taxation is to be proportioned to representation. It is idle to     suppose that the general government can stretch its hand directly     into the pockets of the people scattered over so vast a country....     He would sooner submit himself to a tax for paying for all the     negroes in the United States than saddle posterity with such a     Constitution."So much of this as was not already fact was prophecy. Yet not many weekslater this impassioned orator put his name to the Constitution, thoughit had grown meanwhile into larger pro-slavery proportions. There wasundoubtedly some sympathy with him among a few of the members; but thegeneral feeling was more truly expressed a few days later by Rutledge ofSouth Carolina, in the debate on the continuance of the African slavetrade. "Religion and humanity," he said, "had nothing to do with thisquestion. Interest alone is the governing principle with nations. Thetrue question at present is, whether the Southern States shall or shallnot be parties to the Union. If the Northern States consult theirinterest, they will not oppose the increase of slaves, which willincrease the commodities of which they will become the carriers." Theresponse came from Connecticut, Oliver Ellsworth saying: "Let everyState import what it pleases. The morality or wisdom of slavery areconsiderations belonging to the States themselves. What enriches a partenriches the whole,"--especially Newport and its adjacent coasts, hemight have added, with its trade to the African coast.But a Virginian, George Mason, had another tone. He called the traffic"infernal." "Slavery," he went on, "discourages arts and manufactures.The poor despise labor when performed by slaves. They prevent theemigration of whites, who really enrich and strengthen a country. Theyproduce the most pernicious effect on manners. Every master of slaves isborn a petty tyrant. They bring the judgment of Heaven on a country. Asnations cannot be rewarded or punished in the next world, they must bein this. By an inevitable chain of causes and effects, Providencepunishes national sins by national calamities."These were warnings worth heeding. But Ellsworth retorted with a sneer:"As he had never owned a slave, he could not judge of the effect ofslavery on character." He said, however, that, "if it was to beconsidered in a moral light, we ought to go farther, and free thosealready in the country." But, so far from that, he thought it would be"unjust toward South Carolina and Georgia," in whose "sickly riceswamps" negroes died so fast, should there be any intermeddling toprevent the importation of fresh Africans to labor, and, of course, toperish there. Perhaps it was this shrewd argument of the Connecticutdelegate that suggested, half a century afterward, to a Mississippiagricultural society, the economical calculation that it was cheaper touse up a gang of negroes every few years, and supply its place by afresh gang from Virginia, than rely upon the natural increase that wouldfollow their humane treatment as men and women. His colleague, RogerSherman, came to Ellsworth's aid. It would be, he thought, the duty ofthe general government to prohibit the foreign trade in slaves, and,should this be left in its power, it would probably be done. But hewould not, if the Southern States made it the condition of consenting tothe Constitution that the trade should be protected, leave it in thepower of the general government to do that which he acknowledged that itshould and probably would do.Delegates from Georgia and the Carolinas declared that to be thecondition,--among them C. C. Pinckney of South Carolina. "He shouldconsider," he said, "a rejection of the clause as an exclusion of SouthCarolina from the Union." Nevertheless he said to the people at home,when they came together to consider the Constitution: "We are so weakthat by ourselves we could not form a union strong enough for thepurpose of effectually protecting each other. Without union with theother States, South Carolina must soon fall." On the part of that Stateit had been a game of brag all along. The first lesson in the SouthCarolinian policy was given in the Constitutional Convention. Of theresult, this was Pinckney's summing up to his constituents:--     "By this settlement we have secured an unlimited importation of     negroes for twenty years; nor is it declared that the importation     shall be then stopped; it may be continued. We have a security that     the general government can never emancipate them, for no such     authority is granted.... We have obtained a right to recover our     slaves, in whatever part of America they may take refuge, which is     a right we had not before. In short, considering all circumstances,     we have made the best terms, for the security of this species of     property, it was in our power to make. We would have made better if     we could, but on the whole I do not think them bad."A more moderate and a more significant statement could hardly have beenmade.On the foreign slave trade Madison had little to say, but, like most ofthe Southern delegates north of the Carolinas, he was opposed to it."Twenty years," he said, "will produce all the mischief that can beapprehended from the liberty to import slaves. So long a term will bemore dishonorable to the American character than to say nothing aboutit in the Constitution." The words are a little ambiguous, though he ishis own reporter. But what he meant evidently was, that any protectionof the trade would dishonor the nation; for at another point of thedebate, on the same day, he said that "he thought it wrong to admit inthe Constitution the idea that there could be property in men." Suchproperty he was anxious to protect as the great Southern interest, solong as it lasted; but he was not willing to strengthen it by permittingthe continuance of the African slave trade for twenty years longer underthe sanction of the Constitution. But he held it to be, as he wrote in"The Federalist," "a great point gained in favor of humanity that aperiod of twenty years may terminate forever within these States atraffic which has so long and so loudly upbraided the barbarism ofmodern policy." He added, "The attempt that had been made to pervertthis clause into an objection against the Constitution, by representingit as a criminal toleration of an illicit practice," was amisconstruction which he did not think deserving of an answer.It was, in fact, a bargain which he had not approved of, and did not nowprobably care to talk about. It was made at the suggestion of GouverneurMorris, who moved that the foreign slave trade, a navigation act, and aduty on exports be referred for consideration to a committee. "Thesethings," he said, "may form a bargain among the Northern and SouthernStates." When the committee reported in favor of the slave trade, C. C.Pinckney proposed that its limitation should be extended from 1800 to1808. Gorham of Massachusetts seconded the motion, and it was carried bythe addition of the votes of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, andConnecticut to those of Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, andGeorgia.The committee also reported the substitution of a majority vote for thatof two thirds in legislation relating to commerce. The concession wasmade without much difficulty, a Georgia delegate and three of the fourSouth Carolina delegates favoring it, two of the latter frankly sayingthey did so to gratify New England. It was, C. C. Pinckney said, "thetrue interest of the Southern States to have no regulation of commerce;"but he assented to this proposition, and his constituents "would bereconciled to this liberality," because, among other considerations, of"the liberal conduct [of the New England States] towards the views ofSouth Carolina." There was no question of the meaning of this suddenavowal of friendly feeling. Jefferson relates in his "Ana," on theauthority of George Mason, a member of the convention, that Georgia andSouth Carolina had "struck up a bargain with the three New EnglandStates, that if they would admit slaves for twenty years, the twosouthernmost States would join in changing the clause which required twothirds of the legislature in any vote."The settlement of these questions was an opportune moment for theintroduction of that relating to fugitive slaves. Butler of SouthCarolina immediately proposed a section which should secure their returnto their masters, and it was passed without a word. As Pinckney said inthe passage already quoted, when he went back to report to hisconstituents, "it is a right to recover our slaves, in whatever part ofAmerica they may take refuge, which is a right we had not before."It is notable how complete and final a settlement of the slaveryquestion "these compromises," as they were called, seemed to be to thosewho made them. They were meant to be, as Mr. Madison called them,"adjustments of the different interests of different parts of thecountry," and being once agreed upon they were considered as having thebinding force and stability of a contract. The evils of slavery were setforth as an element in the negotiation, but no question of essentialmorality was raised that brought the system within the category offorbidden wrong. Whatever results might follow would be limited, it wasthought, by the terms of the contract; whereas, in fact, the actualresults were not foreseen, and could not be guarded against, except bythe refusal to enter into any contract whatever.On all other questions involving political principles,--the justrelations of the federal government and the governments of the States;the relations between the larger and the smaller States; the regulationof the functions of the executive, the legislative, and the judicialdepartments of government,--on all these the framers of theConstitution brought to bear the profoundest wisdom. When one reflectsupon the magnitude and character of the work, Madison's conclusion seemshardly extravagant, that "adding to these considerations the naturaldiversity of human opinions on all new and complicated subjects, it isimpossible to consider the degree of concord which ultimately prevailedas less than a miracle." There were, nevertheless, the gravest and mostanxious doubts how far the Constitution would stand the test of time;yet as a system of government for a nation of freemen it remains to thisday practically unchanged. But where its architects thought themselveswisest they were weakest. That which they thought they had settledforever was the one thing which they did not settle. Of all the"adjustments" of the Constitution, slavery was precisely that one whichwas not adjusted.Madison's responsibility for this result was that of every otherdelegate,--no more and no less. Neither he nor they, whether more orless opposed to slavery, saw in it a system so subversive of the rightsof man that no just government should tolerate it. That was reserved fora later generation, and even that was slow to learn. To the fathers itwas, at worst, only an unfortunate and unhappy social condition, whichit would be well to be rid of if this could be done without too muchsacrifice; but otherwise, to be submitted to, like any othermisfortune.While it did exist, however, Madison believed it should be protected,though not encouraged, as a Southern interest. The question resolveditself into one of expediency,--of union or disunion. What disunionwould be, he knew, or thought he knew. Perhaps he was mistaken.Disunion, had it come then, might have been the way to a true union. "Weare so weak," said C. C. Pinckney, "that by ourselves we could not forma union strong enough for the purpose of effectually protecting eachother. Without union with the other States, South Carolina must soonfall." But he was careful to say this at home, not in Philadelphia. Inthe convention, Madison wrote a month after it adjourned, "SouthCarolina and Georgia were inflexible on the point of the slaves." Whatwas to be the union which that inflexibility carried was not foreseen.It was the children's teeth that were to be set on edge.CHAPTER IXADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONMadison's labors for the Constitution did not cease when the conventionadjourned, although he was not at that moment in a hopeful frame of mindin regard to it. Within a week of the adjournment he wrote to Jefferson:"I hazard an opinion that the plan, should it be adopted, will neithereffectually answer its national object, nor prevent the local mischiefswhich excite disgusts against the state governments."But this feeling seems to have soon passed away. Perhaps, when hedevoted himself to a careful study of what had been done, he saw, inlooking at it as a whole, how just and true it was in its fairproportions. He now diligently sought to prove how certainly theConstitution would answer its purpose; how wisely all its parts wereadjusted; how successfully the obstacles to a perfect union of theStates had been, as he thought, overcome; how carefully the rights ofthe separate States had been guarded, while the needed generalgovernment would be secured. Whether there should be an American nationor not depended, as he had believed for years, upon whether a nationalConstitution could be agreed upon. Now that it was framed he believedthat upon its adoption depended whether there should be, or should notbe, a nation. In September, as he wrote to Jefferson, he was in doubt;in February he wrote to Pendleton: "I have for some time been persuadedthat the question on which the proposed Constitution must turn is thesimple one, whether the Union shall or shall not be continued. There is,in my opinion, no middle ground to be taken."Those who would have called a second convention to revise the labors ofthe first had no sympathy from him. He not only doubted if the workcould be done so well again; he doubted if it could be done at all. Withhim, it was this Constitution or none. "Every man," he said in "TheFederalist," referring to a picture he had just drawn of the perils ofdisunion,--"every man who loves peace, every man who loves his country,every man who loves liberty, ought to have it ever before his eyes, thathe may cherish in his heart a due attachment to the Union of America,and be able to set a due value on the means of preserving it." This"means" was the Constitution.Of the eighty papers of "The Federalist" he wrote twenty-nine; Hamiltonwriting forty-six, and Jay only five. These famous essays, of widerrepute than any other American book, are yet more generally acceptedupon faith than upon knowledge. But at that time, when the newConstitution was in the mind and on the tongue of every thoughtful man,they were eagerly read as they followed each other rapidly in thecolumns of a New York newspaper. They were an armory, wherein all whoentered into the controversy could find such weapons as they could besthandle. What governments had been, what governments ought to be, andwhat the political union of these American States would be under theirnew Constitution, were questions on which the writers of these papersundertook to answer all reasonable inquiries, and to silence all cavils.Madison would undoubtedly have written more than his two fifths of them,had he not been called upon early in March to return to Virginia; forthe work was of the deepest interest to him, and the popularity of thepapers would have stimulated to exertion one as indolent as he wasindustrious.But the canvass for the election of delegates to the ConstitutionalConvention of Virginia called him home. He had been nominated as therepresentative of his county, and his friends had urged him to returnbefore the election, for there was reason to fear that the majority wason the wrong side. Henry, Mason, Randolph, Lee, and others among themost influential men of Virginia, were opposed to the Constitution.There must be somebody in the convention to meet strong men like these,and Madison was urged to take the stump and canvass for his ownelection. Even this he was willing to do at this crisis, if need be,though he said it would be at the sacrifice of every privateinclination, and of the rule which hitherto from the beginning of hispublic career he had strictly adhered to,--never to ask, directly orindirectly, for votes for himself.It is quite possible, even quite probable, that Mr. Madison had littleof that gift which has always passed for eloquence, and is, indeed,eloquence of a certain kind. If we may trust the reports of hiscontemporaries, though he wanted some of the graces of oratory, he wasnot wanting in the power of winning and convincing. His arguments wereoften, if not always, prepared with care. If there was no play of fancy,there was no forgetfulness of facts. If there was lack of imagination,there was none of historical illustration, when the subject admitted it.If manner was forgotten, method was not. His aim was to prove and tohold fast; to make the wrong clear, and to put the right in its place;to appeal to reason, not to passion, nor to prejudice; to try his causeby the light of clear logic, hard facts, and sound learning; to convincehis hearers of the truth, as he believed in it, not to take theirjudgment captive by surprise with harmonious modulation and grace ofmovement. Not his neighbors only, but the most zealous of theFederalists of the State, sent him to the convention. It was there thatsuch eloquence as he possessed was peculiarly needed. The ground was tobe fought over inch by inch, and with antagonists whom it would bedifficult, if not impossible, to beat. There was to be contest overevery word of the Constitution from its first to its last. "Give meleave," cried Patrick Henry in his opening speech, "to demand what righthad they to say 'We the people' instead of 'We the States'?" He began atthe beginning. It was the gage of the coming battle; the defenders werechallenged to show that any better union than that already in existencewas needed, and that in this new Constitution a better union wasfurnished.As month after month passed away while the Constitution was before thepeople for adoption, the anxiety of the Federalists grew, lest therequisite nine States should not give their assent. But when eight weresecured there was room to hope even for unanimity, if Virginia shouldcome in as the ninth. Should she say Yes, the Union might be perfect;for the remaining States would be almost sure to follow her lead. Butshould she say No, the final result would be doubtful, even if therequisite nine should be secured by the acquiescence of one of thesmaller States. This answer could not, of course, depend altogether uponone man, but it did depend more upon Madison than upon anybody else.The convention was in session nearly a month. At the end of a fortnighthe was not hopeful. "The business," he wrote to Washington, "is in themost ticklish state that can be imagined. The majority will certainly bevery small, on whatever side it may finally lie; and I dare notencourage much expectation that it will be on the favorable side." Buthis fears stimulated rather than discouraged him. He was always on hisfeet; always ready to meet argument with argument; always prompt toappeal from passion to reason; quick to brush aside mere declamation,and to bring the minds of his hearers back to a calm consideration ofhow much was at stake, and of the weight of the responsibility restingon that convention. Others were no less earnest and diligent than he;but he was easily chief, and the burden and heat of the day fell mainlyupon him. Probably when the convention assembled the majority wereopposed to the Constitution; but its adoption was carried at last by avote of eighty-nine to seventy-nine. Thenceforth opposition in theremaining States was hopeless.New Hampshire--though the fact was not known in Virginia--preceded thatState by a few days in accepting the Constitution, so that the requisitenine were secured before the convention at Richmond came to a decision.But it was her decision, nevertheless, that really settled, so far ascan be seen now, the question of a permanent Union. Had the vote ofVirginia been the other way it is not likely that Hamilton would havecarried New York, or that North Carolina and Rhode Island would havefinally decided not to be left in solitude outside. What the history ofthe nine united States only, with four disunited States among them,might have been, it is impossible to know, and quite useless toconjecture. The conditions which some of the States attached to the actof adoption, the addition of a Bill of Rights, proposed amendments tothe Constitution, and the suggestion of submitting it to a secondconvention, were matters of comparatively little moment, when themajority of ten delegates was secured at Richmond. These were questionsthat could be postponed. "The delay of a few years," Madison wrote toJefferson, "will assuage the jealousies which have been artificiallycreated by designing men, and will at the same time point out the faultswhich call for amendment."Immediately after the adjournment of the Richmond Convention he returnedto New York, where the confederate Congress was still in session. Thatbody had little to do now but decide upon the time and place of theinauguration of the new government. Madison had entered upon histhirty-eighth year, and we get an interesting glimpse of him as heappeared at this time of his life to an intelligent foreigner. "Mr.Warville Brissot has just arrived here," he wrote to Jefferson inAugust, 1788. This was Brissot de Warville, a Frenchman of the newphilosophy,--whose head, nevertheless, his compatriots cut off a fewyears later,--then traveling in America to observe the condition andprogress of the new republic. His tour extended to nearly all theStates; he met with most of the distinguished men of the country; and hemade a careful and intelligent use of his many opportunities forobservation. On his return to France he wrote an entertainingvolume,--"New Travels in the United States of America,"--still to befound in some old libraries. What he says of Madison is worth repeating,not only for the impression he made upon an observant stranger, but asthe evidence of the contemporary estimate of his character andreputation, which De Warville must have gathered from others.     "The name of Madison," he writes, "celebrated in America, is well     known in Europe by the merited eulogium made of him by his     countryman and friend, Mr. Jefferson.     "Though still young, he has rendered the greatest services to     Virginia, to the American Confederation, and to liberty and     humanity in general. He contributed much, with Mr. White, in     reforming the civil and criminal codes of his country. He     distinguished himself particularly in the convention for the     acceptation of the new federal system. Virginia balanced a long     time in adhering to it. Mr. Madison determined to it the members of     the convention by his eloquence and logic. This republican appears     to be about thirty-eight years of age. He had, when I saw him, an     air of fatigue; perhaps it was the effect of the immense labors to     which he has devoted himself for some time past. His look announces     a censor, his conversation discovers the man of learning, and his     reserve was that of a man conscious of his talents and of his     duties.     "During the dinner, to which he invited me, they spoke of the     refusal of North Carolina to accede to the new Constitution. The     majority against it was one hundred. Mr. Madison believed that this     refusal would have no weight on the minds of the Americans, and     that it would not impede the operations of Congress. I told him     that though this refusal might be regarded as a trifle in America,     it would have great weight in Europe; that they would never inquire     there into the motives which dictated it, nor consider the small     consequence of this State in the confederation; that 