it contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg eBook, William Adolphus Turnpike, by William BanksThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: William Adolphus TurnpikeAuthor: William BanksRelease Date: May 22, 2008  [eBook #25562]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WILLIAM ADOLPHUS TURNPIKE***E-text prepared by Al HainesNote: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this      file which includes the original illustration.      See 25562-h.htm or 25562-h.zip:      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/5/5/6/25562/25562-h/25562-h.htm)      or      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/5/5/6/25562/25562-h.zip)WILLIAM ADOLPHUS TURNPIKEbyWILLIAM BANKS[Frontispiece: Kindly hands bound up his wounds]J. M. Dent & Sons Ltd.27 Melinda Street, Toronto1913All rights reservedTO MY MOTHERWILLIAM ADOLPHUS TURNPIKECHAPTER I"What! never been to a political meeting; an' you living in a city.Back to the hamlet for you, boy; you're lost."You're not?  You know where you live, and could find your way home inthe dark?  My, but you're cert'nly the quick actor when it comes tothinking."Sure I've been to more'n a dozen political meetin's.  Ain't my Pa amember er the ex-ecutive of Ward Eighteen Conservative Club?  He's acharter member, too.  Don't he rent the parlor for a pollin' booth onvotin' day, hire himself for a scrooteneer, and have my uncle Henry forconstable?"Your father wouldn't do them things, eh!  Well, maybe he ain't neverhad the chance."The first political meeting I went to?  Well it was in the hall wherethe Sons of Italy meets, and Pa he ain't got no business there reallybecause it's not his gang what's holding the meeting.  It's allfurriners organised into the Ward Eighteen European Reform Club byJimmy Duggan, the coal and woodyard man.  My Pa and Jimmy Duggan isgreat friends.  Jimmy says to Pa, he says, 'Come along, Joe, I got thegreatest bunch of murd-erers of English into the club you ever seen,'he says, 'and tonight the Honorable Wallace Fixem, Minister of PublicWorks, is going to attend our inaggeral meetin',' he says, 'and give usa spiel.'"And my Pa says, 'How much are you gettin' out of it, Jimmy?' he says."And Jimmy says, 'Far be it from me to bandy words with a hopelessdyed-in-the-wool Tory,' he says, 'what's agoin' blindly to his croolend,' he says, 'in spite of----'"And then Ma butts in.  'That'll do for you, Jimmy Duggan,' she says.'Both of them political parties is rotten,' she says, 'and you know it.'"And Jimmy--Gee! but he's the great actor--he looks at Ma with a longface on him, and he says, 'Madam,' he says, 'I admit that the party towhich my poor friend here belongs,' he says, 'is all to the bad.  Iadmit,' he says, 'that it has sunk----'"And Ma says, 'Get out, Jimmy,' she says, 'and take Joe with you.'"And Pa says, 'Ma,' he says, 'how about Willyum coming along,' and youbet I'm listenin' hard that time."And Ma says, 'I'm afraid,' she says, 'about them 'Talians.  S'posethey got to fighting, anybody might stick a steeletter into the boy,'she says."'Pardon me, madam,' says Jimmy, 'you are doing a great wrong,' hesays, 'to our noble feller citerzens----'"And Ma gets up like she was in a kind of a hurry and she says if Padon't take Jimmy away she'll throw 'em both out, and Pa can take me tothe meeting.  And we went."Say, you'd orter seen the bunch in that hall.  I guess there was somefrom every country on the map of Europe, and other places too we ain'tnever dreamed of.  It was a cold night, and they had the stove goin'.Me and Pa, we sits near the door because Pa says that when the meetin'gets agoin' they's no telling about what kind of a trouble there mightbe in a hall like that, and it's us where we can slip out when we wantsto."Next to my Pa was a feller with whiskers a mile long, and pop eyes,and when Jimmy Duggan left us and starts down to the platform thisfeller says to Pa, 'Ain't he the great man!' he says."And my Pa says, 'He ain't so bad for a Swede.'"And the man says, 'He ain't no Swede.  No!  Sir.'"And my Pa says, 'Since when ain't he a Swede when he's born inSwedeland?'"'There ain't no such country,' says the man, 'you mean Sweden,' hesays, and my Pa says, 'I means just what I say,' he says."And the man looks at him and he says, 'Mister Duggan,' he says, 'is anIrishman.'"'With er name like that,' says my Pa, 'imposserble.  'Sides I neverheard of Irishmen.  What country do they come from?' and, honest, my Panever batted an eyelid.  Gee! but he's a grand jollier.  And I thoughtthe man's eyes would drop out; I almost felt like holdin' out my handsto catch 'em.  And he says to my Pa, he says, 'Where do you come from?'and Pa says, 'A free country,' he says, 'where every man gets a squaredeal and can say what he likes.'"Well, the man looked at him hard and he says, very sarkastic, he says,'Where's that?'"'Russia,' says Pa, and, say, you'd orter heard that man yell.  Honest,it made me sick at the stomach.  Jimmy Duggan was just giving thecommittee the last orders on the platform when that yell man cut loose.Jimmy he looks around like he'd been shot, takes a flying leap off'nthe platform, and comes rushing down towards my Pa and the man with thewhiskers and the bulging eyes.  And the man was yelling all the timelike the fans do at the baseball game when the score's a tie and thehome team's heavy hitter slugs the ball on the left ear for a home run.And he was standing up pointing at Pa with a hand the size of a shovel,and all the rest of the bunch around us was getting restless andcacklin' furrin' talk."So when Jimmy gets up to the man with the steam whistle in his throat,he grabs him by the whiskers, gives 'em a tug like he'd pull 'em off,and he says pretty sharp, 'Sit down.'  And the feller set, and just ashe did he opens his mouth to let out another yell, and Jimmy grabs acap from another man's head and sticks it in his mouth, and thatstopped him.  So after he gets the cap out, Jimmy says, 'Now what's therow?'"And the man points at my Pa and says, 'That man says Russia is a freecountry,' he says, and starts in to give another yell, only Jimmy liftsa finger at him and the man stops with his mouth open, and he lookedfoolish I tell you.  So then Jimmy bends down and whispers something inthe man's ear, and the feller smiles and pats Pa on the shouldergentlelike, every once in a while, and Pa lets on he never notices it,though I seen he's kinder mad about something."Just as Jimmy gets back to the platform a Dago and a Hungarian gets towords about who's the best mus-i-cans in the ward."Oh! moosicians, is it?  Have it your own way."You see the Hungarians was awful mad because the Dagos beat 'em outcatering to supply the music for the night, and the Dago orchestra wasplaying the swellest ragtime music you ever heard.  Well, them two getsto blows, and about fifteen others are jumping around ready to pile inwhen Jimmy Duggan begins to pound on the table with a wooden hammerwhat they uses in lodges and club rooms."A gavel, eh!  Very well, me learned friend, I'll not dispute it."He bangs so hard they all quits their scrapping and begins to takenotice.  'I am just informed, gentlemen,' says Jimmy, 'that theHonorable Fixem is now on the stairs on his way into this meeting, andI would ask the ork-estra,' he says, 'to greet him with a few barsof----'"And just then the door opens, and a little procession comes inescortin' the Honorable Fixem, and the ork-estra leader waves his handfrantic and the ork-estra strikes up 'All Coons Look Alike to Me.'Well, say, you'd orter heard the row.  Some was cheerin' and some waslaughin', and the Honorable Fixem he was looking like a sheep outer themeadows, and Jimmy Duggan yells out, 'Stop that tune, darn it,' hesays, and the ork-estra man leader he didn't hear what Jimmy says andhe thought that he wanted it louder, so he waves his hands like mad andthe ork-estra sails into that tune like they'd never quit it, untilJimmy leans over and grabs the leader by the back of the neck andnearly chokes the breath outer him, and the ork-estra is just comin'for Jimmy en massey when the leader says something in Italian and theysits down again looking kinder sad and strikes up 'See the Con'kringHero Comes,' and the Honorable Fixem gets on the platform.  Gee! you'dthink that bunch'd never stop yellin'.  They just cheered and cheered.Then they begins to present illumernated addresses in every languagebut Scotch, and my Pa says Scotch ain't anything but two scones on eachside of a burr.  So when they gets through Jimmy Duggan calls on theHonorable Fixem for a speech, and Fixem started in."Say, I never knowed a gover'ment was so much like angels before.  Thethings what the gover'ment's done for this country, judging by the wayFixem told it, is enough to make people want to keep 'em in for ever.My Pa says it's mostly guff, but the pollertishans has gotter feed thepeople with that kinder guff ev'ry once in a while, he says, they getfat on it, he says."Well, everything goes on fine 'cepting some cheers once in a while,until the Honorable gets down to the gover'ment's plans for theimmigrants.  And he says something about not stooping to bribe any manto cast a vote for the gover'ment by promising to find work for him,but there's a big programme of gover'ment works to be done in theneighbourhood, which, of course, will help to make good times, he says."Just then somebody gets up in the hall and yells out, 'Rotten, rotten,what you caller dat but de bribe, eh?' and another feller shies apineapple at him, whatever he had it there for.  Pa says mebbe he'sripenin' it by the stove so as to sell it the next day.  Anyway itmisses the man what's makin' the noise and hits the ork-estra leader onthe brain-house, and the next I knowed Pa has me downstairs--it's onlyone flight--and he says to me, 'We'll wait for Jimmy,' he says, and wedid."And every minute we waited there was something doing.  Why there wasGreeks and Hungarians and Dagos and all kinds coming out the winders orrolling down the stairs and rushing back again, some of them with theirnoses bleeding and their clothes torn, and all the time shoutin' likemad.  Then all of a sudden everything calms down to a whisper, and menbegan to fly outer that buildin' and run away like mad."So when the Honorable Fixem's safely in his carriage, and JimmyDuggan's walking home with Pa and me.  Pa says, 'What stopped it,Jimmy?'  And Jimmy says, 'Well, I just got a few of the fellerstogether,' he says, 'and we hollers "Steeletters, steeletters," andthat scared 'em, you bet, for they're all afraid of their lives of them'Talian knives.'"'Pretty smart hit, Jimmy,' Pa says, 'but it's almost a pity you didn'tget three inches or so of steeletter in your hide,' he says, 'afterwhat you said to that feller sittin' beside me.'  'Well,' says Jimmy,'he's a Russian,' he says, 'what was mixed up in some of the Nillyistplots, and the only way to keep him quiet,' he says, 'was to tell himyou'd been driven looney by the cruelty of the Russian gover'ment,' hesays."Thus William Adolphus Turnpike, office boy, to Lucien Torrance, whoheld a similar exalted position.  They were sitting on the front stairsleading to the adjoining offices occupied by Mr. Whimple and his friendSimmons, the architect, in the city of Toronto.  The city was then atthe transition period; its population had just passed the 200,000 mark,and already included a fair number of lunatics who clamored for amillion people.  But it had not yet made up its mind that dumpingsewage into the Bay and believing that it would not contaminate theadjoining lake, whence came the water supply, was a system apt toresult in a large proportion of typhoid fever cases.  People hadtyphoid, and either died of it or got better, and in the latter eventthey resumed the drinking of the city water.CHAPTER IIWilliam had engaged himself to work for Mr. Charles Whimple,"barrister, etc.," just one week previously in response to thatgentleman's advertisement for "a bright and intelligent office boy; onewho knows the city well."  When he arrived at the office on the morningafter the insertion of the advertisement, Whimple found William busilyengaged in dusting off the lone table in his room.  At the back of theoffice, with its small, very small, ante-room, was the office of hisfriend, Simmons, and as he was usually down an hour earlier thanWhimple, he "opened up" and kept an eye on things for the barristeruntil he arrived.  As Whimple entered, William greeted him with acheery "Good-morning, Mr. Whimple.""Good-morning, what are you doing here?""I'm your office boy.""You are----""Sure," said William cheerily, "I sent the other bunch away.""The other bunch----""Yep; say, Mr. Whimple----""But just a minute," Mr. Whimple interrupted, "how did you know myname?  Have we met before?""Search me--if we did we wasn't interduced.""Then how did you know?"William stopped dusting and regarded him thoughtfully."How did you know?" Whimple repeated."I always know," the boy repeated slowly, and then, as though communingwith himself, "yes, I always know," and, as to-day, there was that inWilliam's voice that haunted and held Whimple, as it has done manysince.  But that comes later.William went on still dusting slowly.  "Say, Mister Whimple, I mayn'tbe much, but the rest of the gang was the greatest c'lection er muttsyou ever seen.  Honest, I don't believe there was one of 'em could saythe alphabet without thinking ten minutes first.  And I needed the jobmost anyway.""How do you know?""Because I looked 'em over good, and I heard 'em saying how many hours'work they'd do a day and how much they wanted for it, and most of 'emwas saying about how they showed their other bosses what's what.  So Iknew they didn't want a job; they just wanted a place to bum in.  Youshould'er heard me shooing 'em away.  I told 'em you had made yourselection and I was IT."Whimple smiled and William returned the salute.  He saw in his employera young man, tall, with a brown-eyed, good-looking face, and a head ofred hair.  And Whimple saw a rather thin but healthy-looking lad with asomewhat long face, a nose that William himself always referred to as"pug," round blue eyes, freckles, and hair--well, just "mouse coloured"William's mother always called it.Their acquaintanceship ripened into friendship very fast; too fastWhimple thought, for by mid-afternoon he had told the boy a great dealabout himself and his past and his prospects.  And William hadlistened, asking a question occasionally, sometimes interjecting aremark, and always, so Whimple says now, with an aptness that surprisedand delighted him.  William evinced no surprise and no regret wheninformed that bright as were the prospects, two dollars a week, for thepresent, was the maximum salary he could hope for."Don't worry about that," said William when Whimple apologised for thesmallness of the amount.  "It'll help some at home, and mebbe I ain'tworth no two dollars a week anyhow.""Don't underestimate yourself, William," said Whimple."No chance of me doing that.  Say, Mr. Whimple, supposin' I'm any goodand business improves, me salary goes up too--that's right, ain't it?""That's right, my boy.""Then," solemnly, "it's up to us to increase the business, and to makethis office too small to hold the people that want to hire you."And Whimple smiled again.  The lad's cheeriness, the eagerness of thekeen young face, and the tone of the voice put new heart into him.  Thefame he had dreamed of on the day he had been called to the bar wasstill a phantom; the struggle to earn a living in the profession he hadchosen in the years when youth brooked no obstacles was keener far thanever he had believed possible, yet there remained to him hope, courage,and the determination to "look for the silver lining."  At thirty hehad few clients, and a legacy that brought him just $6.00 a week, andoften had been his only barrier against real want.  His father andmother had died while he was just a boy; relatives had given him a homeuntil at eighteen he had started "clerking" in a law office, and withhis wages and his legacy had carried himself through to the day whenhis name appeared among those called to the bar.  Simmons he had met inthe clerking days; the young architect was financially better equippedthan the lawyer, and Whimple had not hesitated at times to accept ofhis assistance--though he never felt free until the obligation had beenrepaid.  It was Simmons who had insisted on the arrangement for theadjoining office, though Whimple at first had strongly demurred.  But,indeed, an office floor with a front entrance and a rear stairway thatlanded you on a lane leading to a back street was not withoutadvantages when money was scarce and bill collectors plentiful.To many it may seem remarkable, to others amusing, and to the minoritya thing unbelievable, that before the end of the first week Williamshould have been manager of the office so far as its routine wasconcerned.  Every one who has had the honour of acquaintance with afirst-class office boy will understand.  Those who have not had thatexperience will not, and to them is added those who do not regard boys,office or otherwise, as having the remotest bearing upon, connectionwith, or part in the working of the world of to-day.  Your first-classoffice boy inspires fear.  He knows his indispensability; he knows thatmore than anything else the boss loathes the trouble of hiring anoffice boy; he knows--oh! what does he not know?  You who have neverhad to do with him, or depend upon him, go sit at the feet of him whohas and try to grasp the outer rim of understanding as to the depth andheight and width of the wisdom and learning, the profound knowledge ofthe only human being to whom the Kings of Finance and Commerce (see anydaily paper) appear as they really are--just men.Sometimes an office boy is beloved--and that not always--for thevirtues that tell most in actual work.  Or may be a streak ofcheeriness in the otherwise inscrutable bearing; it may be a confiding,"Oh! may I trust in you, boss?" kind of manner; it may be that in theman who hires him there still remains--though now well controlled--thatlove of fun and careless mischievousness that seems to be peculiar tothe office boy of all nationalities.  What one or what combination ofany or all of these qualities Whimple found quite early in Williamstill remains a mystery.Coming back to William, it is to be observed that while he became GrandMaster of Ceremonies in full charge of the office routine, he exercisedhis authority with discretion and tact.  By the end of the first month,he had won Whimple to an announcement on the outer door to the effectthat office hours were from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and he had establishedhis own luncheon hour as from 12 to 1.  "It wouldn't do for you," hesaid gravely to Whimple, "to be takin' your lunch then, because you'rea per-fession'l man.  You gotter keep up with the procesh if you wantermake good."Whimple laughed, but nodded his acceptance of the idea.  "You're aninspiration, William," he said.  "You've so much sunshine in yourcomposition that you are shedding it nearly all the time, consciouslyor unconsciously, on the worthy and unworthy alike."And he spoke truly; William exercised no discrimination in this regard.You could take it or leave it.  Unless you had just lost some one nearand dear to you, or otherwise tasted the dregs of sorrow or remorse,you couldn't ordinarily stay within a few yards of William and grieve.Not that he had not suffered, young as he was.  Not that he could notand did not grieve with those he knew were in sorrow or distress; youare not to think that of William.CHAPTER IIIWhimple early discovered that William was not a model of integrity,diligence, and rectitude.  Though an office boy he had his failings,and William's explanations of them were as curious, but quite ascharacteristic, as the lad himself."When it comes to business matters, Mister Whimple," he said with adignity that almost upset the young lawyer's effort to appear gravelyjudicial, "it's me on the level.  You can trust me to tell the truthand do the right thing.  But when it comes to spinnin' yarns, nobodydon't have to b'lieve 'em.  Honest, I don't know when I'm telling thetruth about 'em myself.""That is a curious psychological problem, William.""Gee! is it as bad as that?  I hope it ain't fatal."Whimple smiled.  "No," he said, slowly, "and yet, my boy, there is onlyone way to build up a good reputation.  Do you go to Sunday school?""Well--not reg'lar.  Sunday's the busy time for me.""Busy!  Why?""Sure--I take the kiddies out if it's fine, and maybe we don't have thebully times.  Say"--his eyes were shining now, and he stood a littlecloser to Whimple, who was sitting on the table--"there's Pete, he'snine and a holy terror, and Bessie, she's six, and Joey, he's aboutfour, And Dolly--say, Mister Whimple, you'd orter see Dolly, she's gotbig brown eyes, and brown hair, and a kinder solemn little face.She----""Are you spinning yarns now, William?""It's between man and man now, Mister Whimple--this ain't no yarn.  MyPa says he uster think no man could keep a buncher kids like us and behappy, and now he thinks no man could be happy without a bunch like us,and Ma says it's hard scrapin' sometimes, but she wouldn't be withoutone of us for a thousand feeter land on the main street, and that'sgoing some.""What does your father do, William?""Pa, he's an express-man, and a good one at that, Mister Whimple.  Heowns two horses and rigs, and I tell you he keeps agoing all day long,Saturdays too, an' he's a-buyin' the house we're in, an' it ain't nocinch of a job liftin' a mortgage.  Many's the time I've heard him sayhe wished he could lift it as easy as he lifts some of the trunks hecarts.""And what are you going to be, William?"And William was silent.  He flushed a little, toyed with a button ofhis vest, and finally answered in a low tone--"I know what I wanter be, and sometimes I think I know how to getthere, and sometimes I don't, and I'd rather not tell it just now.""I hope you'll succeed, William--if your aim is a lofty one.""Well," drawled William, "it's some high, and Tommy Watson says I'mbughouse, but I tell him he's a bit that way himself.""Tommy Watson, the auctioneer?""Sure--say, Mister Whimple, ain't he a pippin?  My Pa says he can makepeople buy rocks and weep with joy on the bargains they're gettin' indiamon's."That day Whimple called on Tommy Watson, famed as the peer ofauctioneers.  To those who counted among his friends and acquaintances,and they were as numerous as the wise "I-told-you-so's" on the dayafter an election or a prize fight, Tommy was always an inspiration anda delight.  His long rambling store, with its wonderful stock offurniture, books, nick-nacks, pictures, all that goes to add zest tothe life of the bargain-hunters and auction regulars, was agathering-place for all classes.  Tommy knew and was respected by themen whose names meant power and money; he was beloved by many awage-earner for the help he gave in the all-important problems of homefurnishing, and he was the idol of one William Adolphus Turnpike.Whimple lost no time in preliminaries.  "I've got an office boy,Tommy," he said, "and----""One William Adolphus Turnpike, to wit," Tommy broke in."The same; he's quite a character, Tommy.""A good lad though," said the auctioneer, "and a friend of mine.""He says you know what he wants to be, and that you think he'sbughouse."Tommy laughed.  "He spends an hour here every morning," he said."What!""Turns up as regular as the clock at about fifteen minutes to eight,and stays until he has just time to get to the office on the stroke ofnine."There was a long pause, each man regarding the other thoughtfully.  Itwas Tommy who relieved the situation."So far as I know," he said slowly, "he has confided in no one butmyself and one other regarding his plans.  He's only a boy; he maychange his mind any day.  But I don't think it.  I never knew any one,man, woman, or child, so earnest and determined.""You know how I'm situated, Tommy; mighty little yet but hope--and,thank God, I've never lost that.  It's really a shame, Tommy, payinghim the princely salary of two dollars per, but I need him.  Tommy, ifyou think it best not to tell, don't."Tommy understood.  "It might help," he said, "and I can depend upon youto keep silence.  Come along."He led the way to the back of the store, where his bachelor apartmentswere situated--a bedroom and a library--a most curious library, forTommy was an omnivorous reader and particularly given to romances.In one corner of the room was a small bookcase with perhaps fifty bookscarefully arranged; a little desk and an arm-chair.  "That's hiscorner," said Tommy abruptly; "look at the books."Whimple looked over the titles rapidly, then more closely.  "Plays," hemurmured, "the lives of actors, more plays, _The Comedian, Garrick,Nell Gwynn_," then turning to Tommy and raising his voice, "he wants tobe an actor?""Yep.""But many boys think that--almost every boy thinks that.""But not the way this boy does.""Yes, but can he read these, Tommy?  I never heard any one murderEnglish like William does.  Yet he does it so winningly--that's theword, I think--that any jury would acquit him.  And his slang--uh!"  Heshrugged his shoulders."Fierce, ain't it?" said Tommy smilingly."But can he really read these books?" Whimple reiterated."You should hear him and see him tackling the dictionary when he'sstuck.  Besides--I'm telling you everything mind in confidence--'Chuck'Epstein reads with him.""Epstein!  Whew!--and in his day he was the greatest comedian of themall.  And a Jew!""And a man," said Tommy Watson with a note of challenge in his voice."I've heard much of his kindnesses," Whimple said, "but know him onlyby sight.""He's a great friend of mine," said Tommy; "he spends nearly all hismornings here; has done since he retired from the stage.  He's gettingfeeble, but his mind is as clear as ever, and his heart--well, hisheart has never grown old.""William Adolphus Turnpike, Epstein, retired comedian, Tommy Watson,auctioneer," said Whimple softly, and then looking up he found Watsonregarding him with a whimsical smile."Us three, and no more--Amen, as the Three Guardsmen used to say,"Tommy said."Well, not exactly in those words," Whimple replied."But meaning the same," Tommy retorted, "so what's the difference?Believe me," he went on, "the boy is safe with us.  If his ambitionsticks--why, he'll land.""You're a good sort, Tommy Watson," said Whimple warmly as he left theshop, "I wish I could do more to help the boy.""You're doing lots," said Tommy genially, "lots, and--well, the legalworld'll take off its hat to you yet."CHAPTER IVMeanwhile our hero, as Vivian de Vere de Softley, the author of onethousand love stories, would say, was pensively leaning out of one ofthe office windows and thoughtfully taking pot shots at passers-by witha pea-shooter.  Preferably he selected as his marks gentlemen whocarried weight, and considered his best shot that which stung the earof an elderly banker who wore a silk hat, and was detested by all wholistened to his exhaustive speeches at banquets given by associationsthat could not afford to leave him off their programmes.  The bankerwas exceedingly wrath, but as William was an expert in concealment, hisvictim was foiled in his attempts to discover the cause of the suddenstoppage of his flow of thought on his next great speech.The banker finally passed on, and William was aiming for his next shotwhen something struck him on the shoulder.  He turned smartly toencounter the stern gaze of a lady, an elderly lady.  Her parasol wasdescending for another blow, but William adroitly dodged it.  Nothingdaunted, she raised it again, and this time succeeded in rapping "ourhero" smartly across the arm.William dropped to the floor, crawled under the table, rose again andwaited.  The lady walked gravely toward him, whereupon William againfollowed the under-the-table route, and finally flopped into a chair byhis own desk.  The lady regarded these manoeuvres with a gleam of angerin her fine dark eyes.The boy had swiftly "taken her in," to use his own expressive phrase,and afterwards was able to say that she wore a bonnet, not a hat, thatlong ringlets of grey hair hung down each side of her face, that herdress was of silk and black, and that she held in her hand a slenderchain, to which was attached a dog of the most melancholy countenance,and a shape that made William grin."What are you laughing at?" demanded the lady."The dog; if it is a dog.""And a very good dog it is too.""Well, I've seen pictures of 'em," said William politely, "but I ain'tnever believed it till now.""Believed what?""The face and the shape----""There's nothing the matter with the shape," was the tart response;"Dick's a Daschund.""A what!  Oh!  Gee!  Say, my tongue always rolls around like it had noroots when I strike a word like that.""No wonder; a boy of your age should be at school.""School! not for mine, lady.  I've gotter make a livin'.""A living--you!  What are you doing here?""I'm the office boy.""Office boy!  Whose office boy?""Mister Whimple's.""You're a liar," the words were snapped out with a force and directnessthat William afterwards declared put him "on the blinks" for a fewseconds.The only retort that he would have made to one of his own sex roseswiftly to the boyish lips, and stayed there.  He rose--who shall saywhat freak of imagination swayed him then--and took a step toward thelady.  His hand went to his cap--in the encounter he had forgotten ituntil then--and off it came with a sweeping bow.  He was no longerWilliam, or Willie, or Bill; he was no longer an office boy; this wasnot Toronto.  Here was the lady of the castle, proud, imperious,haughty; he was one who served under the banner of her lord.  Beyond,was the great old house, surrounded with stately trees and finedriveways, and Sir William Adolphus Turnpike, in a voice he did notknow, was saying, "Fair lady, I am thine to command.  If I haveoffended I prithee forgive; 'twas not my intent, I do assure thee."And the lady--what half-forgotten dreams came surging to her mind.Long ago, so long ago, there had been a boy with a heart of gold thathad lost none of its admiration for her when the boy gave place to theman.  But on a far-off border line of the empire he had given his lifefor the flag, and out of her life there had gone the dreams of a futurewith him.  All through the years since then she had held her heartagainst those who would have stormed it, and now--and now--she tried tospeak, but her lips were tremulous and her eyes tear-dimmed.  Shecourtesied low and with grace, and William, who was standing with theink-stained fingers of one hand clutching his cap and the other heldwhere he thought his heart might be, felt a thrill of sympathy."Lady," he said softly, "I await your command."And still she did not speak.  Then William, true knight, threw down hiscap, placed a chair for her, carefully laid her parasol on his desk,and waited.Presently, "Boy," she said gently, "where did you learn that?""I read it somewhere," he said, "some of it, and I guess I just made upthe rest.  I can't help it, lady.  I often have them kinder spells."She was looking at him thoughtfully, and William blushed under herscrutiny."Don't be ashamed, boy," she said.  "'Them kinder spells'"--and shemimicked him so well that William laughed outright, "will carry you along way some day.  You may sit down."William sat, and thereupon Dick, his mistress having loosened her holdupon the chain, ambled over and placed his solemn-faced visage as closeto the boy's knees as he could get it.  William lifted the dog whichsnuggled close to his breast."If Dick likes you there must be some good in you," said the lady: andher voice was again sharp and firm.  "Where's Whimple?""He'll be here soon, I expect.""Umph!  Poking around the law courts I suppose.  He's never been herewhen I want him.""Mister Whimple is a busy man," said William loyally."Don't lie to me," was the sharp rejoinder, "I'm a Whimple.  MissElizabeth Whimple, if you want to know, and I'm his aunt.  He would bea fool and enter law against my advice, and I hope he'll starve for it."William's eyes narrowed.  "Did you ever try starving, Miss Whimple?" hedemanded."Heavens, no!--what would I want to try that for?""Well, I'm glad if you never have to," was the answer.  "My Dad camenear to it sometimes before he got onter his feet, and I ain't very oldmyself, but I've seen the day I'd walked a long way to get my teethinto a piece of beef-steak.""I don't believe you.""Well, of course, you don't have to," said William calmly.  "That's afunny thing about grown-ups.  They'll believe any old lie if it's inprint, but the minute anybody tells 'em the truth straight outen hisheart, they don't----""Boy," she interrupted sharply, "don't preach to me!""Preach! me preach!""Yes; you may not call it that, but it's preaching just the same.  Now,where's Whimple?""Honest, lady, I don't know.  He----"And here Whimple entered by the back door.  For collectors werebeginning at this time to come in with requests for payments of themonthly bills incidental to the upkeep of an office, and it was thepart of wisdom to ascertain before entering the office whether any suchwere "at anchor."His aunt greeted him with a fair amount of cheerfulness, and at onceinformed him that she had come to ask that he look after the interestsof her estate."I've been acting as my own rent collector for years," she said, "andI'm getting tired of it.  I want you to look after that and after anylegal business arising therefrom, but mind you I'll pay you only thelegal rate, no more, relative or no relative."They passed into Whimple's room, whence the lady emerged some timelater.  William opened the office door for her, and as she passed outshe admonished him to make good use of his time, and "never, neverenter law.""I'm about as near to it as I'll ever get," answered William politely.CHAPTER VThis is a chronicle of facts, culled from the life of William AdolphusTurnpike and other personages, as distinguished from mere history.Everybody in this age of research and cheap books, to say nothing ofmagazines and newspapers, knows that history is not true.  It isestablished beyond doubt, for instance, that King Richard III. was aman of loving disposition, and that the story of his being an accessoryto the death of the little princes has no foundation.  We know alsothat the Scots deliberately planned the loss of the battle of Floddenin order to pave the way for their modern invasion of England and thecapture of all the good jobs in the empire.  They simply lured theEnglish on, because they knew that no Englishman could live north ofthe Tweed and ever get enough to eat, while every Scotsman isimpervious to stomachic or climatic conditions so long as there is aposition to be filled or a bawbee to be paid out.Here then, sticking to facts, is to be recorded that William AdolphusTurnpike reached the office one Monday morning, some time after theevents last chronicled, wearing a black eye, an abrased nose, and ascratched chin.  Naturally, Lucien Torrance, office boy to Simmons, thearchitect, and therefore on terms of equality with William, demanded animmediate and detailed explanation, which William proceeded to give."Did yer see the lacrosse match between the Easts and the Stars onSaturday?"What! yer didn't?  Gee! you missed it.  Say, there was somethin' doingnearly every minute till the police broke up the game and took theplayers to the Number 4 Station."What's that--did I take the kiddies?  Not for a minute I didn't.Would yer wanter take your little brothers or sisters----"You ain't got none.  Well, nobody's blamin' you, are they?  I'm justsupposin' you had.  Would you wanter take 'em any place you'd thoughtthere was goin' to be a scrap?  Not much you wouldn't.  I seen themteams play once before when I was a kid."What!  Well, I like that.  Fourteen last birthday, and I'm takingnothin' from any feller my age around these parts and don't you forgetit, or I might forget I promised me mother I'd try not to fight for oneday."Well, anyway I piked off alone to the flats to see the game, and, say,there was about half a millyun people there."What's that!  There ain't half a millyun in the whole city of Toronto?You'd be a peach of a booster for this town, wouldn't you?  Supposethere ain't, it sounds good anyway.  Besides, you know very well I'mjust trying to give you some idea about the size of the mob.  And say,maybe there wasn't some tough mugs there neither.  Uh!"Well, the referee he gives the teams a talking to about keeping thenation-al game clean and free from disgrace.  'The first man,' he says,'that forgets he's playing lacrosse and begins laying the hickory onanybody,' he says, ''ll get a good long penalty.'"Then Alderman McWhirter takes a whirl at 'em; him with the spongywhiskers on each side of his face, and a jaw like the vestibul of astreet car."Vestibool, is it?  Where did ye learn French?  You muster lived inMontreal."You never?  Well, hold your hair on; hold your hair on.  Kinder souredon your food, ain't yer?  What d'ye eat for breakfast anyway?  Maltedsoapsuds, chipped mule fritters, er any o' them fancy foods?"Porridge! my, but you're away behind the times.  Wake up, man, wakeup, the fast express is tearin' down the track and----"All right.  I'll proceed.  So McWhirter gives the bunch a spiel a milelong and would be going yet, but somebody calls out to him to dry up,an' he gets red in the face and dries up, and the game starts."For about one minute they played like Sunday school was a joy to them,and then the Easts bangs the ball into the net and the goal umpire heups with his hand, meanin' a goal and----"What's that?  You know that means a goal, eh!  Feeling pretty pertthis morning, eh!  Mebbe you'd like to go on an' tell the story toyourself."Oh! all right, all right.  Well, anyway, up goes the goal umpire'shand for a goal, and down goes the umpire for the count, for Tip Doolenof the Stars cracks him a wallop on his brain factory you could hear amile away.  And all the Easts piles on to Tip and it took the policefifteen minutes to get 'em untied.  And the police sergeant he says,it's Tip to the station, but the goal umpire wakes up and says hewouldn't lodge no complaint, for Tip and him's friendly, only wouldthey please get a new goal umpire, he says, and they did."Then the police sergeant wouldn't let 'em go on playing till he'd hada little say, and you'd oughter heard it.  He says, 'It looks to melike most er you fellers is spoilin' for a clubbin', and I'd hate,' hesays, 'to disappoint you if that's the case.  But I'm willing to stayon duty a few hours beyond me time,' he says, 'in order to please you.'"And the fellers swear they're ready to go on with the game and playlike kinder-gart'ners.  So the sergeant says, 'Let her go,' he says."So it went all right for quite a while and there wasn't much doin'except the noise, for both sides had big gangs there and you cert'nlycould hear 'em."At the end of the second quarter it was a tie--two goals each, and notmore'n half the players on the mourners' bench."What!  You don't know what the mourners' bench is?  Say, if you'd onlystudy the English language 'stead of loading your think tank with themfurrin' words you wouldn't need nobody to tell you that the mourners'bench is just another name for the penalty bench."But when the third quarter gets nicely started!  Well, say, thereferee he puts one of the Easts off the field for trippin', andanother one of the Easts he swings his stick on the referee's slats forall he's worth, an' the referee just has time to kick him in the shinsbefore a third feller gives the referee a biff under the ear and layshim out.  About half the people made a mad rush for the Easts and theother half rushes for the Stars, and there's only six policemen there.But the sergeant--say, my Pa knows him well--he's the wise guy.  Helets 'em all get going and you couldn't see anything but people shovin'and crowdin' and hittin'.  And then he chases for the caretaker of thepark where the flats are an' gets two lines of hose fixed on a hydrantand two cops a holdin' the hose.  And pretty soon two streams er waterhits the crowd, and you'd oughter have seen the way it bust up.Honest, I never thought there was so many fast runners in the whole ofCanada.  And when the most of the people is outer the way, here'snearly all the Easts and the Stars a rolling around on the groundtearin' each other to pieces.  The water never fizzed on 'em.  And thepolice sergeant--my Pa says he's a strat-eg-ist--he says, 'It's justadding fuel to the flames,' he says, 'to put water on 'em,' and looksround, and I did too, and sees the patrol wagon coming along with morecops in it.  Them lacrosse fellers is just attendin' strictly tobusiness same as if there wasn't anybody in the whole province ofOntario but them.  And then the cops waded right in and clubbed themfellers good and plenty, and----"That's what I'm coming to, if you'd only keep the brakes on your fortyhorse power tongue a minute."Yes, sir, they squeezed the whole shooting match into the wagon andtook 'em to the station."Sure they gave 'em bail that night, and soaked 'em five and costsapiece in the court Monday morning.  And I was telling my Pa about it,and I says to him, 'Now,' I says, 'in a case like that, Pa, who wins?'Of course I meant the game."And my Pa says to me, he says, 'Well,' he says, 'it looks to me like adraw,' he says, 'with first-class honors,' he says, 'to Sergeant Mackayand second place to the magistrate,' he says.  And he never bats aneyelid when he says it.  I tell you it's a pretty wise guy that can putone over on my Pa."What's that gotter do with my face!  Gee, but you oughter to be in thelaw--you'd be the peach of a cross-exam'ner you would.  But just so'sto have no hard feelin's I'll tell you.  I'm an East-ender myself, andI made some noise too.  One of the Star rooters got kinder mad at memaking a few remarks during the game, and when the mix-up starts I'mlaying for him.  But he seen me comin' and I couldn't dodge the brickhe had.  It's all right to pipe off about fighting square and fair, butthat guy wasn't lettin' his brick go to waste till he could think up amotter.  Not for him.  He did just what I would have done if I'd seenthat brick first."But when Whimple asked for the cause of the battered visage, Williammerely answered that he had collided with a brick."Was the brick hurt any?""Well, not so's you'd notice it," retorted William smilingly."Um!  It's rather unfortunate that it was such a hard object--for you,I mean," said Whimple.  "You see I had intended to start you collectingrents to-day.""Me!""Yes.  Miss Whimple, my boy, is the possessor of some twenty houses;four of them in your district, William, to say nothing of some choicelots that are increasing in value every month.  She's a wonderfulwoman, boy; her dad left her four houses to begin with, and she's donethe rest.  If I had her business ability, William, I'd be on the fairway to being wealthy now.""But, Mister Whimple, my face won't matter.  Like as not it'll give mea chance to talk to the people and find out whether they're goodtenants or not.  Let me try it, sir.""All right.  One of the tenants down your way owes two months' rentnow, and in the other cases the rents are due to-day.  Here are theaddresses.  You look after these four tenants every month; I'll takecare of the others."And forthwith William Adolphus Turnpike set out, as he expressed it toLucien Torrance, "to round up some coin for Mister Whimple's aunt."  Hewas proud of the trust imposed in him, and could not forbear a partingshot at Lucien."You're gotter stay here," he said importantly, "and answer foolquestions when people call.  But it's me to the front, Lucien Torrance,on a man's job."CHAPTER VIWilliam was an unconscious diplomat.  His business career had alreadybeen marked by the devotion of much time to the consideration of theeasiest methods of dealing with problems as they presented themselvesfrom time to time, though not always with success, and his firstperusal of the list of tenants handed him by Whimple showed him thatthe job of rent collecting would be no sinecure.  He knew his owndistrict very well; the work and conditions, the family life, and manyother details of a more or less intimate nature, were matters ofknowledge to him.  He read the list over again as he turned down astreet to make his first call, and then passed the first house on hislist, and kept right on until he came to Jimmy Duggan's coal and woodyard.  Jimmy was located in his office, a wooden shack with a tin roof,where he was laboriously engaged in the monthly task of straighteningout his books.  To him William confided the errand entrusted to him,and over the habits and the career of the first-named tenant on thelist there followed a solemn conference.  At its close, William, with a"Much obliged, Jimmy," sallied forth to the house he had passed on hisway, and knocked sharply at the door.  A girl, untidy, unwashed, with aface that might have been pretty if the coating of dirt upon it wereremoved, appeared at the bay window of the ground floor.  William knewthe girl and she knew William.  Unabashed, he endured her calmscrutiny, banking on his belief that she would never "tumble" to hiserrand.  She looked a long time, but finally came to the door andslowly opened it.  Whereupon William promptly stepped inside."Is Mister Jonas in?" he asked as he closed the door behind him."No," she said timidly."Ah! gone out for a walk I suppose?" said William politely.In the dim light of the hall she looked at him with fear in her eyes."He's a great walker, I believe," William went on with a tinge ofsarcasm.  "Out in the mornings, out in the afternoons, takes anotherstroll in the evenings.  Does he ever go to sleep?"She made no answer, and William, who was at least a head shorter,patted her on the shoulder.  "Cheer up," he said patronisingly, "it'sall right.  I've just come for the rent, that's all.""For what?" she gasped."The rent; hadn't you better show me where he is right away?""Didn't I say he wasn't in?" she answered sharply."You did, my dear, but I'm willing to forget it.  I believe that kinderanswer goes in polite society when the lady of the house don't want tosee anybody, and the lady what calls hopes that the lady she calls onain't in.  But it don't go with me.""But he ain't in," the girl whined."Then he's out for the first time in three years," was the rejoinder,"and it's funny he'd pick rent day for a walk; him owing two months'rent at that.  P'raps he left the money with you?""No.""H'm.  Then I'll wait till he comes back.""But he won't be back until to-night.""All the same to me.  I can wait; that's part of my work."She shifted ground uneasily, and finally burst out, "He's in thekitchen, Will Turnpike, and you can go in yourself.  He's wild today."William walked solemnly through to the kitchen where Jonas was sittingby the window in a great arm-chair.  A weird-looking figure he was,muffled in an old overcoat, though it was summer and the day was warm.A growth of untrimmed whiskers through which peered crafty eyes, and amass of long matted hair topping a big head, gave an uncanny appearanceto the man, who was a helpless cripple through rheumatism.  He glaredat William, who cordially expressed the hope that he was feeling alittle better."Is that what she let you in for?" he demanded fiercely."Well, I didn't just put it to her in that way, if you mean yourdaughter," said William calmly.  "I'm after some money, to tell you thetruth.""Money!" the old man shrieked the word."You heard me first time," returned William politely, "and ain't youglad your sickness don't hinder your hearing some?""Money!" shouted the old man again.  "Money!  What do you want moneyfrom me for?""The rent," said William calmly--"two months, due to-day.  You canread, I believe," and he held before the old man's face two receipts,properly made out for the amounts due.  "I see," he said, pointing toan open letter on the window sill, "that you got Mister Whimple's noteabout it.  I'm the coll-ect-or he speaks of.""You!""The same, Mister Jonas."The man glared at him savagely, and then shouted, "You--you--gett'hades out of this.""Sure, I'll get out as soon as I get the rent.  But as for the placeyou speak of--not for mine.  This is a good enough world for me, MisterJonas."The old man fumed in helpless rage.  He cursed William and his familyand their antecedents, cursed his daughter, cursed everybody andeverything for a full five minutes, and ended up with the declaration,"I haven't got any money."William silently regarded him for a moment, and then leaning forward alittle said, very clearly, "Well, I guess you ain't making so much asyou uster when you sold light-weight coal on the big contract from thecity, but I'm told on the best au-thor-ity, Mister Jonas, that youain't ever likely to know what it means to be without money."For a long time then they looked at each other, fear on the old man'sface, William inwardly troubled, outwardly cool and unruffled.  The oldman broke the silence."Mary, Mary," he screamed, and his daughter ran to him, "pay this youngruffian two months' rent, and get the receipts from him, and if youever let him in again--I'll--I'll kill you."When the transaction was completed, William turned to Jonas.  "I'll behere to the minute when the next rent's due," he said confidently, "andit'll be ever so much nicer for you to have it ready, else," and herehe assumed what he believed to be the correct attitude for such anoccasion, "I'll have to have you turned out."Then he left, the old man hurling curses at him until the door closed."He's gotter great line of talk," said William to himself.  "Now forMrs. Moriarity," that lady being the next on his list.  William knewher for a good-natured, careless woman, who nevertheless was the realhead of the Moriarity household, which included nine children ofvarying ages and sizes.  Nothing was ever done on time in her house; nobill was ever paid when it was due, though Mrs. Moriarity never triedto evade one.  She was just happy-go-lucky and careless.William approached the house with some misgivings.  A number of theyounger Moriaritys were playing around the door, and just as Williamapproached them a drunken man staggered up, singing loudly.  He fellover one of the children, and the youngster set up a howl that broughtthe mother to the open door.  She reached it just as the man, thrustingout a long arm, brutally flung another child on one side.  With anangry cry the mother rushed for the brute, but William reached himfirst.  Without a word the boy stooped, grabbed one of the man's anklesfirmly, and, putting all his strength into the effort, pulled his footoff the ground.  The man lurched heavily and fell full length upon hisface, just escaping William, who stood upright, as Mrs. Moriarity,talking volubly, plumped down on the man's back.  "And here oi'll sittill a p'licemon comes," she said; "you, William Turnpike, kape alukout for wan."  And even as she said it a policeman came along andtook the drunken offender into custody.  As the policeman marched hisprisoner away, Mrs. Moriarity turned to William, who was trying tocomfort the little Moriaritys, for those who had not been hurt werecrying as lustily from fear and sympathy as those who had.  In theshort struggle with the man William's face had received a buffet thathad re-opened one of the scratches, and this was now bleeding somewhatfreely."For the luv of heavin, Willyum, did that brute do that to you?" criedMrs. Moriarity.William tried to explain, but she never heard him.  "It's good f'r himMoriarity wasn't here or he'd a bruk his neck," she went on excitedly."Come on in," she ordered, "all ov yez; come on, Willyum."  And Williamwent.  She comforted her offspring and bathed William's face in warmwater, unheeding his protests and deaf to his explanation of theoriginal cause of his injuries.  It was only after she had made himdrink a cup of tea and had sent the children out to their play againthat he was able to explain his errand."And yu're a rint collector--a bhoy loike you!  Think ov that now.Willyum, yu're mother ought to be proud ov yez.  Sure an' oi'll pay therint: oi'd clane forgotten this was the day, but oi've some money byme, bhoy, an' yez can have it."  She escorted him to the door after therent had been paid over, patting him on the head, calling him a hero,and telling him that "the rint wud always be rady for the loikes ovhim."  And at the door, in the open light of day, she flung her armsaround his neck.  "God bless yez, ye darlint," she said, and kissed himwarmly.  William blushed all over, but went on his way rejoicing.Whimple had told him that the other two tenants were always on time,and this day William found it to be so.It was nearly six o'clock when he started back to the office, one handholding the rents thrust deep into a pocket.  Whimple, who had beengrowing anxious at the boy's long absence, and had been blaming himselffor asking him to do the work, met him half-way to the office.  "I wasa little bit worried," he said simply; "I'm afraid I made a mistakeputting so much responsibility on you, William."But when, in the inner room of the office, William laid down the moneyhe had collected with the laconic statement, "It's kinder slow work,"Whimple's misgivings fled."Bully for you, William," he said enthusiastically.  "You're a winner.There's a new day dawning for me--and for you.  I have had two newclients in to-day.  You've brought me luck, boy."And William grinned delightedly.CHAPTER VIIFor a week before the first appearance in vaudeville of "Flo Dearmore,"Tommy Watson's behaviour alarmed his friends.  He ate little; it wasplain to those who met him daily that he slept little, and WilliamAdolphus Turnpike confided to Whimple that Tommy was "shaping up forthe asylum."  "He don't know what he's sayin' half the time, and theother half he ain't sayin' anything, he's just singing Scotch songs,and Tommy's singing ain't much diff'rent to the hootin' of a factorywhistle," he said earnestly."You sing some old country songs pretty well yourself, William.""Pa says so, and so does Ma, but----" he paused."Well?""Well--I ain't laying out to be no singer.  Tommy took me to one ofthem singing factories one day, and the feller what heard me says,'Well,' he says, 'he has a sweet enough voice, but that's about all forhim.'""That was encouraging though.""But I ain't hankering to get my living by singing.  Anyway, that's notworrying me now--it's Tommy.  Mister Epstein says he can guess, but hewon't tell.""Guess what's troubling Tommy?""Yes--and I wish I did.  Maybe I could help--if I am only a boy.""Well, we'll have to go slowly, William; it won't do to intrude on aman's private affairs.""That's what Jimmy Duggan said when he laid out the burglar what wascrackin' his safe in the coal yard office; only this is diff'rent;nobody ain't swipin' Tommy's money.  I asked him and he says to me,'Willyum, you know what our old friend Bill Shakespeare says.'  And Isays, 'What?'  'Well,' he says, 'Bill has a few lines to say it don'tmatter much who swipes me purse, it's what hits me heart that counts.'""Um--well, that may be Tommy's version of it: Shakespeare's wassomewhat different."There the conversation dropped.  Whimple thought no more about it untilthe following Monday night when he received from Epstein an invitationto go to the Variety with him.  He met the old comedian at the door ofthe theatre, and found Watson and William with him.  They had seats inthe front row of the balcony.  Epstein and Whimple sat together, Watsonnext to the barrister, and William next to Watson.  It was a fair billas vaudeville bills go, with Flo Dearmore about half-way down on theprogramme.  Whimple noticed that Watson paid no heed to the variousturns, though William was revelling in them.  But when Flo Dearmore'snumber went up he saw Watson lean forward with his arms on the rail infront of him, and even in the vague light of the semi-darkened theatrehe noticed that his face was pale and drawn.  The very simplicity of"the turn" constituted one of its greatest charms.  Flo came on thestage and sang in a pure contralto voice several old country songs.  Apretty woman she was, not tall, but gracefully formed, with dark blueeyes and a wealth of black hair, crowning a well-shaped head.  She wasa remarkably expressive singer--you saw the scenes of her songs asclearly as though you were wandering through them with Flo by yourside.  The applause was heartier with every song; it grew into anoutburst of cheering when she sang "Come Back to Erin:" and at itsclose bowed and smiled her acknowledgments.  She would have left thestage then, but the audience would not have it.  Again and again sheadvanced and bowed her thanks, and again and again the cheering rolledout.  Finally the lights went up, once more she stepped to the front ofthe stage, nodded to the orchestra leader, who waved his baton, andbegan "Loch Lomond."  Sweet and clear the voice rose and fell; theycheered after the first verse; they cheered again at the close of thesecond; and then--she saw Tommy Watson, who was staring straight ather, his face brighter now, his eyes aflame, his lips slightly parted.What was it that brought the tears to her eyes; that made her falterand sway a little, and then stand silent and helpless while theorchestra twice started the air for the third verse, and the audiencebegin to grow restless?The stage manager, alarmed and worried, was about to ring down thecurtain when, from the balcony, a clear boyish voice took up the song.All eyes were turned in that direction.  Flo Dearmore herself flung outher hands as though urging the people to listen and the orchestra toplay on.  Whimple started from his seat and then sat down again onEpstein's sharp "Leave him alone," and William, looking down on thestage, unconscious of anything but the vision of helpless lovelinessthere, sang in his sweet boyish voice:--  "The wild flowers spring, and the wee birdies sing,  And in sunshine the waters are gleaming,  But the broken heart, it kens nae second spring,  Though the waeful may cease frae their greetin'."She joined him then in the refrain, both keeping perfect time:--  "Oh! you'll tak' the high road and I'll tak' the low road,  And I'll be in Scotland afore ye,  But me an' my true love will never meet again,  On the bonnie, bonnie banks o' Loch Lomond."There followed a scene the like of which the Variety had neverwitnessed.  For long minutes the applause and cheering echoed andre-echoed through the theatre.  Everybody told everybody else what aclever act it was; but they had been "on to it" from the first.  Scoresof people confided to other scores that they had noticed the lad comeinto the theatre and take the seat reserved for him.  They wondered howold he was; if he was "her brother," and between times they hoped thatthere would be a repeat.But as a "repeater" William would not have been a success.  He wastrembling and almost hysterical when he sat down, and Tommy Watson wasin almost as bad a condition.  Whimple was uneasy; Epstein only seemedto be cool.  He passed the word along, and, as the curtain went up forthe next act, the four friends quietly left their seats and walked downthe stairs into the main entrance of the theatre.  Here they were metby the manager, who seized Epstein by the arm.  "Say, 'Chuck," he saidexcitedly, "that was a great stunt.  How much will the kid take for theweek?"Epstein smiled and turned to William.  "I wouldn't do it again for ahundred dollars a night," said William pointedly, "and I don't knowwhat I did it for anyway.""But, see here, my boy," said the manager, "there's big money in it foryou--say----"William, however, was already at the door, and Whimple, not whollyunderstanding what lay behind Epstein's murmured, "Sorry--but I'll haveto explain later," followed him.The manager was talking now to Tommy.  "Flo Dearmore wants to see you,Mr. Watson," he said.  "Do you know her?"Tommy nodded.  "Come along then--you coming too, Epstein?""No."  The old comedian smiled affectionately on Tommy as the latterwent off with the manager, and then walked away slowly, his lips movingas though he was communing with himself.At the door of the dressing-room the manager left Tommy, who knockedgently.  The door was opened at once by a coloured maid of uncertainage, who turned to her mistress at the sight of Tommy.  "It's a gent,honey," she said, and Flo, who was already in street attire, turned tothe door.  "Come in, Tommy Watson," she said quietly.  "Toots," to themaid, "leave us a little while."Tommy stood near the door, his eyes sparkling, his cheeks full ofcolour now, his hands rigid by his side.  Flo waited, her own cheeksburning, her heart beating fast.  Tommy came a little nearer to her,and, "It seems like a long, long time since you went on the stage, FloDearmore," he said.She nodded, and recovering a little of her dashing self, answered,"It's only ten years, Tommy.""No," said Tommy, "it's more than that--it's all of twenty.""Tommy!""I'm forty and you're thirty--think of that, Flo, and you were ten thefirst time I saw you on the stage.  Don't you remember the pantomime inthe old schoolhouse?  You were the Queen of the Fairies, and----""Yes, but I was still a school-girl.""And your heart was already set upon the stage.  I've never forgottenthat night, Flo; such a winsome little fairy you were.""But--but----" she faltered."I did--I tell you," he asserted stoutly, as though she hadcontradicted him--"I fell in love with you that night; I watched yougrow into young womanhood, Flo; and always--and always--you filled myheart.""Don't, Tommy.""And when I asked you--and when you laughed----" he broke off abruptly."Don't," she pleaded--"don't, Tommy.  It was cruel of me----"He came nearer still--his arms outstretched now.  She rose with aswift, "No, no, Tommy, I cannot--not yet--wait a little longer--give mea little time," and there was a note of appeal in her voice.  She wenton rapidly.  "I must feel that I can give you all that you would have,Tommy.  There is no other man--believe me--and my work--my work--well,it is not all now.  There are times when--" and again she halted.  Thenlooking at him bravely, she said, "Tommy, if you are of the same mindat the end of the season, and there is no other woman," this with agleam of mischief in her eyes, "perhaps I'll know for sure."And Tommy, the silver-tongued auctioneer, the man whose eloquenceopened people's pockets and made them buy bargains they didn't want,meekly accepted her rebuff when she refused even to allow him to kissher hand, and left her when she said, "It must be good-night, Tommy,now."The next morning the newspapers with one accord paid tribute to thecleverness of the Loch Lomond scene in "Flo Dearmore's turn," and atevery remaining performance it was repeated.  But William had no partin it.  A choir boy from a city church got "the big money" the managerhad talked of.  And Tommy Watson, who attended every performance duringthe week for just so long as Flo Dearmore's act lasted, began to eatlike a man who had many slim meals to make up for.CHAPTER VIIIThe truth as to William's turn at the Variety having gradually becomeknown among his friends, he assumed, in the opinion of various of hisyouthful associates, an importance not hitherto felt for him, and thismanifested itself in the form of an invitation to take part in "UncleTom's Cabin," to be presented by the Berkeley Junior Dramatic Society.William's eager consent was somewhat dampened when he was informed bythe young and ambitious manager of the production that he would have totake the part of a small coloured boy and that there were no lines forhim--particularly.  "You'll just come in kind of incidental," said themanager--who was not much older than William--"and sing a piece.""Not much.  No singing for mine.""Pshaw!  It'll be dead easy, and I bet it'll make a hit too.  You knowthe stunt--lights down--spotlight on the stage--you in it singing in alow sweet voice 'Loch Lomond.'""What!""Sure thing.""What in Sam Hill has 'Loch Lomond' gotter do with 'Uncle Tom'sCabin!'" demanded William truculently.  "Them niggers never even heardof it, I'll bet.""Well, this ain't no ordinary Uncle Tom's show, let me tell you that,"retorted the manager.  "We've doctored it up quite a bit.  It's tooslow for our bunch the way it is put on by most companies.""But 'Loch Lomond' in a nigger show!  Gee! you're crazy.  Next thing Iknow you'll want me to wear kilts.""I never thought of that," said the manager thoughtfully; "but, say,that would be an elegant stunt.  Let's do it.""Not with my legs," said William.  "Didjer ever see 'em?  They're aboutas fat as fishing rods.""All the better.  It'll bring the house down, I tell you.""Well, I don't want any house falling on me the way that'll be liableto when it sees me in kilts and me face black--'oh! mother, mother,mother, pin some clothes on me,'" he concluded sarcastically.  But inthe end William was won over, and he entered into the rehearsals with awhole-hearted determination that gladdened the manager's heart, andmade half of the rest of the cast jealous.You who discriminate in the choice of plays; who talk learnedly of theart of Irving, Mansfield, Forbes Robertson, and Miller; you should haveseen that presentation given to a packed house.  There were all ofthree hundred people in the Berkeley Junior Dramatic Society's clubhouse that night, and every one of them parted with coin of the realmto the amount of one quarter of a dollar for admission, and never a onecomplained that he or she didn't get all of it back in real value.The scenery and all accessories, including the costumes, werehome-made.  Who can value the loving care and thoughtfulness thatmothers and sisters put into every stitch of those costumes; with whatinterest they studied the play, as "doctored," in order that thegarments might be historically correct?  And who shall fittinglydescribe William's kilts, as made by Mrs. Turnpike from a Scottishshawl?  William appeared in the first scene, without having anything tosay, but the costume spoke for him.  There was a shout of laughter ashe walked across the stage for the first time, to be renewed when ashrill voice invited all and sundry to "pipe them legs."  The audiencepiped them--they were encased in black stockings--and laughed again,whereupon William advanced to the front and, pointing an accusingfinger in the direction of the original "piper," shouted, "I'm on toyou, Tom Edwards: everybody knows you're so bow-legged you wouldn'tdare wear anything but long pants."  It took the audience some time torecover its equilibrium, but eventually the play proceeded to the scenewhere Eliza made the perilous trip across the floating ice.Eliza, a buxom girl with a heavy tread, carrying a large rag doll, madethe flight very slowly.  She didn't trust "them cakes of ice," knowingfull well that packing cases, however stoutly built, and however ablydisguised in white cheese cloth, were parlous things for a lady of herweight.  The prompter urged her in an audible voice to get a move on,to which she retorted sharply, "Shut up, I ain't going to break any ofmy legs for fun."But when the baying of the bloodhounds, faithfully imitated by theentire company, only partially concealed in the wings, was joined bythe barking of the real live dog in the show, she began to move alittle faster.  She moved faster still when the real dog, a fair-sizedanimal of uncertain breed, wearing a stout muzzle, broke away from the"crool slave masters" and dashed towards her, and just as she lit onthe last cake of ice it gave way.  The excited and hilarious applauseof the audience, together with Eliza's frantic screams, struck panic tothe heart of the already frightened dog, which, turning towards thefoot-lights, made a flying leap into the audience.  Fortunately itlanded on the stout knees of William's Pa, and that worthy, firmlygrasping it by the neck, and thus effectually stopping its barking,carried it to the main door and threw it into the street.  Whereuponthe scene proceeded, the stage carpenter and his staff of one havingmeanwhile extricated Eliza from the cake of ice and started her on theconcluding portion of her journey to safety.  It was then that William,burning to distinguish himself, and having a vague notion that "Chuck"Epstein, who was in the audience, had once declared that the actor whocould interpolate telling lines in his part was on a fair way to fame,advanced solemnly to the front, regardless of the dropping curtainwhich landed on his shoulders and flopped ungracefully around him, todeclare in his loudest voice, "And I wish to say, that the man whathits a woman is a coward."  William and the curtain were somehow partedby the now irate manager, but the audience insisted on the "niggerkiltie" returning to the front, while they gave him another heartyround of applause.A lecture behind the curtain, in which the manager, the stagecarpenter, Eliza and Legree, and Uncle Tom combined, seared William'ssoul to the centre, though he said not a word, and the play went on.The death-bed scene, described in the home-made programmes as the"grand finally," included the appearance of "the sweet boy singer,William Adolphus Turnpike, in 'Loch Lomond.'"  Little Eva was dyingbeautifully when the pianist, who was not at all merciful to theuncertain age and still more uncertain tone of his instrument, beganthe air.  William, who was one of the group around the bed, advancedand began to sing.  The audience ceased its snickering after the firstfew words to listen intently.  To many it was a beloved song; theycould forget the incongruous surroundings in the sweet memories itrecalled, and to others it appealed, as many old-world songs do, by itsplaintive sweetness.  William was making a hit, and he knew it.  Boythough he was, he felt to the full the bond of sympathy between himselfand the audience.  There was a queer sensation in his heart as he beganthe last verse, and he wondered if he could finish it.  He had reachedthe second line when the voice of the prompter, imploringly pitched,begged him to "hurry it up; little Eva's bed's a falling down."William turned sharply toward the bed and, as he turned, something gaveway at his waist.  He rushed to the death-bed, snatched therefrom thecoverlet, wrapped it majestically around him, and walked off the stage,leaving behind him a little plaid heap--the kilts.  The curtain droppedsuddenly in response to the manager's frantic signals.  Little Eva, theboy who had also taken the part of Legree, jumped from the bedhysterically crying, "You spoiled me part," grappled madly with themanager, and while the battle raged, William Adolphus Turnpike,coverlet and all, slipped quietly out of the back door and racedfrantically for home, only two short blocks away.CHAPTER IX"When I feel gloomy, I'm good and gloomy," said William to LucienTorrance one sunshiny afternoon in June, as they sat together inWhimple's office, their respective "bosses" being out "on business,"another way of saying that they had gone to the baseball match."This is one day when I'm gloomy, and I just gotter gloom--it ain't nogood your buttin' in and telling me to cheer up and all that kinderrot.  No, sir, I just gotter gloom till it's all over.""What have you got to 'gloom' for to-day?" ventured Lucien, "it's abright, cheery day; the sun is----""The sun might be the moon for all I care," interrupted Williamimpatiently.  "I got up gloomy, and likely as not I'll go to bedgloomy.  Gee! this is a rotten world sometimes.""Maybe you're ill," suggested Lucien."Ill nothing--don't you ever feel gloomy?""Not without good cause.""Well, I'd just hate to be you.  Sometimes a song, or somebody humminga tune, sets me gloomin', or something I read, or sometimes it ain'tnothing at all that I could tell.  It just comes and sticks around tillI don't know whether I'd sooner be a gloomer or a merry-ha-ha feller,with a smile for everybody and everything.  I uster get that way inschool sometimes, and I hated school bad enough, except the play time,but I sometimes wish I was back again.""Why?""How the dickens do I know?  Don't you?""No--I've made up my mind to a business career, and----"William broke in again.  "Well, you cert'nly have your mind welltrained.  If I had a mind like that, I'd take it out and dump it intothe Bay every once in a while.""How could I do that?  I'd have to commit suicide.""Well, you're a living suicide anyway, with a mind like yours," saidWilliam.  "It's too regular, that's what it is."They sat silent for a long time.  Lucien was afraid to speak, andWilliam was just "glooming."  He turned to his comrade at last, andbegan, "Say, whenever I get the gloom on me, sooner or later I get tothinkin' about the first day Pete went to school.  That was two yearsago--and he's nine now, and maybe he don't like school.  Say, he'd gowithout a meal rather'n be late.  He's got that medal bug in his brainpan; you know the game, never late and good conduct for about seventeenyears, and you get a medal that's pretty to look at and no darn good tohelp you get a job.  There's one good thing about Pete though, even ifhe is a kid."  He paused."What is it?""He can fight.  Say, Lucien, you'd oughter see him at it.  Why, lastweek he had three fights with one feller.""What for?""Well, the guy licked him the first two times, and didn't know anybetter than to go around and beef about it.  So Pete tackled him againand licked him good and plenty, and every day since then Pete asks himdoes he wanter fight again, and he says, 'No.'  That's the way withsome folks, they know when they've had enough, but Pete never does; hejust stays with it till he wins out, then he looks for another fight.But he's cunning, Pete is, he don't fight around the school none--Petewants that medal."But I was going to tell you about the first day he went to school.One morning Pa says to Ma, 'Well, what about Pete starting school?' hesays."And Ma gets kinder white and her lips is trembly, and she says, 'Iguess he'll have to go,' and she says to Pete, 'Do you wanter go toschool, Pete?' and Pete says he's crazy to go."So Pa says to me, 'You'd better take him along, Willyum, I guessthere's no need for me to go tottin' up there.'"But Ma says to Pa, 'I'd kinder like you to take him, Joe, the firstday,' she says, 'and I'll go and meet him at noon,' she says."And you bet Pa does what Ma asks him, he's that set on her.  So Patakes him, and I seen Ma crying when they starts, so I pikes out after'em quick, for it makes me feel kinder queer to see Ma and Pa feelingbad about anything."Pa goes to the principal, and he asks Pete the same old fool thingsthey ask every boy and girl what goes to school, and finds out Pete canread and write some, so he sticks him in the first form, and, ofcourse, it's a lady teacher.  She bends down and pats Pete on thehead--he's gotter great mop of curls--and says, 'Well, my little man,'she says, 'I hope you'll be a good scholar.'  'Sure,' says Pete,'anything to oblige a lady.'  So she laughs and says, 'What did you sayyour full name was?'  And Pete shuffles around some, and then he says,'Peter Cornelius Turnpike,' he says."Well, that set some of the kids a snickerin'; and one of 'em, a boyabout Pete's size, says, 'Gee! what a name.'  Pete walks over to himand says, 'My Ma likes it, and anything she likes goes, see,' and withthat he pastes the kid one in the eye, and right there they goes foreach other fierce."Sure the teacher stopped 'em.  Didjer ever know a woman that wouldn'tstop boys fightin' or get somebody to stop 'em?  She stops 'em allright, and keeps Pete in after school to give him a spiel about beinggood and a credit to the school and his Ma and Pa, and right there sheplants the idea in Pete about getting a medal."When I gets out after school there's no Pete, so I ask some of thekids, and they says the teacher's talking to him.  I waited around, andall of a sudden I sees Ma coming along, and I'm just going to speak toher when along comes Pa.  He lets on he's just coming that way onaccounter business, but his face gets a kinder red, and Ma laughs aglad little laugh.  And when I told 'em about Pete being kept in, theyboth looks awful solemn and plunks down on the steps to wait for him.Pa, he takes one'r Ma's hands and tells her to cheer up, and Ma saysshe can't, she feels gloomy, and the house was awful lonesome with boththe boys away.  So, just when I think there's going to be a cryingmatch, out comes Pete with his face a shining.  Ma grabbed him andkissed him like she'd never stop, and Pa hoists him on his shoulder,and the procesh starts for home."Well, both Ma and Pa were for Pete staying home that afternoon, butnot for Pete.  He was crazy for school.  He told 'em what he'd done,and Pa laughs and Ma tells him he'd orter be ashamed to laugh at hisboy fightin' the first day he's at school.  But Pa laughs some more andsays, 'It ain't a bad sign,' he says; 'they gotter fight some time orother, and there's nothing like starting early,' he says."So Pete and me goes off to school in the afternoon, and Pa says to Ma,'Keep a stiff upper lip, Ma, the boys are all right,' he says, and Iguess Pa knows."There's quite a bunch in our family now, and some of 'em ain't oldenough for school yet, and I s'pose Ma 'll feel gloomy about 'em whenthey start, same as she did about Pete."He rose, put on his cap, and informed Lucien that he was going to lookat the bulletin boards to see how the baseball team was doing.  "I hopethey'll lose," he added."Why?" Lucien demanded."Well, they've lost three games in a row now to the tail enders, and ifthey lose this one it'll make me gloomier'n ever, and maybe I'll be sogloomy there'll be no sense in it, and I'll begin to cheer up."CHAPTER XIt was Miss Whimple who heard the first detailed account of William'sexperiences as a rent collector, and she heard it from William's ownlips.  She sent a note to the office one day, asking Whimple to sendthe lad up, ostensibly with some papers, "but in reality," she added,"because I want him to take luncheon with me; I want to ask him aboutsome things.""And if she wants to ask him she'll ask him, all right," Whimple musedto himself, "and William 'll have to answer, for Aunt is a remarkablybright woman, and a remarkably direct woman, too."To William he said, "You'll take these papers up to Miss Whimple, andyou'll take luncheon with her at her house----""I'll--I'll--what's that?""Take luncheon with her.""Gee!" said William, and then--"Say, honest, Mister Whimple, has shegotter bunch of servants?""No--only two.""A butler?""No--no, a maid, and a man who looks after the grounds and the horseand that kind of work.""Gosh, I'm glad of that.  The idea of me eatin' with rich folks withone of them solemn butlers that you read about standing behind mechair--why, honest, I'd choke to death on the first bite."Leaving Whimple, William marched into Simmons' office and demanded ofLucien Torrance, "Have you gotter clean han'kerchief?"Lucien said he had, and produced one in proof of his assertion.William snatched it from him; seized the jug of ice water, the commonproperty of the occupants, soused one corner of the handkerchief, andcalmly, but vigorously, wiped his face with it, using the unwettedportion to dry his visage.  Lucien's protests had no effect on William."Don't get mad, Lucien," he said soothingly.  "I'm invited out to eatwith a lady.  I gotter keep my own han'kerchief clean, and you wouldn'tlike me to go with a dirty face, I know.  Just hang it outer the windowand it'll be dry in a minute," and thereupon he departed.Miss Whimple lived a considerable distance beyond the then city limits.She occupied what had once been a farm-house, solidly built, andsurrounded by several acres of land, including a small but excellentorchard.  She owned a good deal of land in the neighbourhood, now oneof Toronto's finest residential districts.As William turned into the driveway leading to the front entrance, hewas hailed by a man who was cutting the grass around one of the flowerbeds.  "What'll you be wantin', laddie?" said the grass-cutter."To see Miss Whimple," answered William readily."And what for?"William eyed the questioner, and with a gleam of mischief in his eyes,replied quietly, "On business.""Aye--business, they'll all be saying that.  She'll no see ye, ma lad,so you better be tellin' me, and maybe I'll be able to tell ye the wayto be goin' aboot it.""What part of Scotland did you come from?" asked William sweetly.  Theman glowered at him--the boy went on, "You could never deny you camefrom Scotland, the thistles is just stickin' out on you in bunches.""You're a verra cheeky young----" began the man, but William cut himshort with, "Save your breath, Scotty, I know more about myself thanyou can ever guess."  And then changing his tone, he asked sharply, "Doyou own this place?""Miss Whimple is the owner, young man, and I'm thinking----""Don't--don't get to thinkin'.  It'll stop the grass-cutting if you do;but seeing that you don't own the place I guess it's no good asking youwhat you'll take for it----""Ye young----" began the man, but whatever else he might have said hekept to himself, for at that moment a woman appeared at the frontentrance of the house and called, "John, ye'll be leaving the laddiealone--Miss Whimple's expectin' him."William walked up to the woman, lifted his cap, and asked in his bestmanner, "That gentleman back there a relative of yours?"  She smiled atthe audacity of it perhaps, but answered, "Aye, the gowk's marrit tillme, but I'm sometimes feared I made a mistake takin' peety on him.Will ye come in--if your name happens to be Tur'r'rnpike.""Well, it's something like that," answered William cordially as hestepped inside, "but it don't often get so many 'r's' slung into it."Miss Whimple appeared in the hallway and extended a hand to William,who squeezed it heartily and hoped the lady was well.  She was, shesaid."Well, I'm glad to hear it," said William."Umph--it doesn't take the boys long to follow the example of the men.Now, you don't really care a cent about my health, and you know it!""You're wrong, Miss Whimple," he answered, and there was earnestness inhis tone.  "I like people I know to be well--most of them anyway.""You don't care whether the others are or not?""Well, some of 'em--some of 'em.  You see there's a few wouldn't knowwhat to do with themselves if they was well, and the others--well,never mind 'em."That was a rare luncheon.  William ate heartily and praised thecooking, two things that pleased both Miss Whimple and the maid.  "I'mgood and hungry," he said by way of explanation, "and Pa always says itain't no disgrace to be hungry, and it's only a chump what won't eatall he can when he gets next to it.  There's enough as can't get whatthey want to eat, he says, when they need it most, without anybody'swhat's hungry playing manners when they can get it."He liked Miss Whimple's direct manner of speech and her habit ofinsisting upon answers to her determined questioning.  It was in answerto her demand that he gave the story of his experiences as a rentcollector, and he gave it well.  He started out easily enough, but wasquick to see that she was following him with keen interest; he noticed,too, that the maid had ceased altogether the "clearing away" process,and was standing by her mistress, listening with shining eyes and mouthslightly open.  Their interest thrilled him, it mattered not that theaudience numbered only two--it was to him as though nothing in theworld mattered but the recital of his story in such a manner as thatthose two should live it with him.  He rose as the recital proceededand paced the floor, using the chairs occasionally to indicate thepositions of himself or some of the others who had played their parts.And the women laughed and applauded, or murmured words of sympathy andunderstanding as the tale proceeded.  It came to an end somewhatabruptly, William suddenly embarrassed, half ashamed, altogether shy,longing to get out of the house and back to the office.  "And that'sall," he ended curtly."And did Mrs. Moriarity say anything when she kissed you?" asked MissWhimple slyly.  William blushed--he did not often feel so hot anduncomfortable at a mere question.  He felt a sudden rush of anger athimself for blushing, and some annoyance at Miss Whimple as the causeof it, and it was only after she had repeated the question that heanswered, "Yes--she--she--says, 'God bless ye, darlint.'"They allowed him to go finally, but it was only after Miss Whimple hadexacted from him a promise that he would bring Pete and the other youngmembers of the Turnpike family to spend a Saturday afternoon with her.The maid accompanied him to the door, and stood watching him as hewalked down the path towards the gate.  William noticed that thegrass-cutting operations had brought the maid's husband closer to thehouse.  "John," said the maid, "ye'll nae be needin' tae stop theladdie wi' ony of yer fulish questions.  If there's onything to tellaboot him, I'll tell it."The man looked at her sharply, and William, as he passed him, saidsoftly, "Gee! but you married men have the hard times."  And he duckedin time to avoid a good-sized piece of wood that the man hurled at him.CHAPTER XIWilliam was not long in fulfilling his promise to Miss Whimple to takehis younger brothers and sisters up to spend a Saturday afternoon ather house.  His mother started early on the task of getting them ready,and spent an anxious hour keeping them clean and tidy until Williamarrived from the office and "cleaned up."  She watched them, with prideand tenderness on her face, as they departed, Bessie and Joey, aged sixand four years respectively, in front, where, as William put it, hecould "keep an eye on 'em;" William and Pete, with Dolly, the baby, twoyears old, toddling along between them.  As a shepherd, William herdedthem by street car and on foot, until they reached the Whimple house.Miss Whimple was at the gate to meet them.  "Here's the bunch, MissWhimple," he said smilingly, and then contrived to get in an aside toPete, "Now you mind what I said about behavin' or I'll knock your blockoff when we gets away."The youngsters were timid and shy.  They hung to William closely for awhile, with hazy notions only of what to do with themselves, and fromsheer embarrassment rebuffing the kindly advances of Miss Whimple andthe maid.  They began to feel more at home when Miss Whimple suggesteda tour of the grounds, and a visit to the barn to see the cows, twofine Jerseys, and presently they began to talk to her and to oneanother with freedom, all but Dolly.  Miss Whimple, who was greatlytaken with the little toddler, noticed that William was particularlytender toward her, his hands were ever ready to lift her, or guide herover rough ground, he suited his steps to hers when she walked, and allthe time he kept up a running fire of baby talk.  Dolly was all dimplesand smiles; she seemed to be perfectly happy and contented, but shemade no sound.  It was some time before Miss Whimple noticed this, andwhen she said to the little one, "Such a little pet, I'll warrant youtalk a lot to your mammy though," Dolly smiled at her and then turnedto William her wonderful brown eyes full of questioning.  Williamsmiled back, "She likes oo, Dolly," he said softly, and then looked atMiss Whimple, his eyes moist, his lips trembling a little.  He tried tospeak, but could not find words.  But Miss Whimple understood.  Herhands went to her breast.  "Oh--" she murmured, "I--I--didn'tunderstand, William, I--I----"  Down on her knees she went near one ofthe flower beds, pulled therefrom a rose, and, with the tearsstreaming, pinned the flower to Dolly's dress, saying half to herself,"Deaf and dumb--deaf and dumb--poor little mite.  God blessyou--and--help you."Thereafter she made Dolly her special care, and the child seemed tolike it, making occasional dashes on to the lawn to join William andthe others, whose restraint having passed were playing with joyouszest, under the direction of the elder brother.It was getting near to tea time when "Chuck" Epstein appeared on thescene.  Tired of their play, the children had assembled on theverandah, Dolly sitting on Miss Whimple's knee looking over a picturebook, the others listening to one of William's fairy stories.  "Chuck,"whose acquaintance with Miss Whimple dated back many years, took a seatnear them.  He was joyfully greeted by William and "the bunch," andMiss Whimple felt something like a pang of jealousy when Dolly wriggledfrom her knee and went to Epstein.  It was only for a moment though,the child was palpably so delighted to be with the old comedian, whosesmile of greeting to her was wonderfully expressive.  He tenderlylifted her to his knees, and with an arm around her little body, heldher close to his side.  William was dethroned, and he knew it, andaccepted the situation quite calmly, though he did not laugh soheartily as the others when Pete demanded, "Tell us one of yourstories, Mr. Epstein, they beat Billy's to bits."  And Epstein toldone, and then another, and another.  He acted them too.  The childrenscreamed with delight as he changed his voice to each character of thestory, yes, and changed his very appearance as they watched him, andall so naturally, so easily, that they seemed to be hearing and seeingso many different people taking part in the unfolding of the tales.They were almost hanging to the old man, when the maid appeared withthe announcement that tea was ready.  They entered the airydining-room, crowding around "Chuck," all begging to be allowed to sitnext him, and the argument grew so heated that William had to settleit.  "Dolly on one side," he said with emphasis, "and Bessie on theother, and everybody keeps quiet or gets out," and then in a loudwhisper to Pete and Joey, "Don't you be makin' hogs of yourselves.  Nomore'n three pieces of cake, mind."But the terror of William's threats faded before the hunger of "thebunch," and the determination of Miss Whimple and the maid, to saynothing of Epstein, to see that it was appeased.  Pete ate until evento chew became a decided effort, and when Miss Whimple pressed him totake "just one more piece of pie," he answered wearily, "It ain't nogood, Miss Whimple--I'm full to the collar bone."William, who had been glaring at him for some time, remarkedscathingly, "Gee, you'd think you never got a square meal at home," towhich Pete promptly retorted, "Well, I wasn't going to let Miss Whimplethink I couldn't eat her cooking."Tired, happy, and full, William and "the bunch" departed at last, MissWhimple and Epstein going with them to the electric car--a quarter of amile away from the house--the old comedian, despite the protests ofMiss Whimple and William, carrying Dolly all the way.  He kissed hergently as he placed her in the car, and the child threw her arms aroundhis neck and pressed her little cheek against his for a moment ere heleft.When the car had disappeared from view, Epstein escorted Miss Whimplehome.  They walked in silence for a little distance, and then she askedhim suddenly, "When did you first meet William?""Three years ago," he said smilingly.  "It was a chance meeting.  Youknow," with a touch of sadness in his voice, "the people of my race arenot always kindly treated--even in so new a country as this--and sobig," he went on musingly.  "Who shall say what Canada is to be in thefuture?--I see things, I see things--a great northern power; men ofmany races blended together in one great nationality under the Britishflag.  Well for her that her statesmen build truly, well for her----"he broke off abruptly, and with a quiet, "I beg your pardon, we weretalking of William.  I was walking along the street one day, in asection of the city where many of our people live, when a 'rags andbones man' came along trundling a well-laden push cart.  Three youngroughs began to bait him.  They threw his cap into the middle of thestreet, overturned his cart, and began to attack him when William'sfather intervened.  He was driving his express wagon near the scene.He jumped from the wagon, laid one of the roughs out with his fist, andturned on the other two.  William, who had been riding with his Pa,took a hand in the proceedings then, climbing from the wagon and usingthe whip on the roughs.  They turned and fled.  William and his Pahelped the 'rags and bones man' to right his push cart, and then Iintroduced myself to them.  The father turned my commendation asidewith a good-natured remark to the effect that three to one wasn't fairplay, and William added, 'What Pa says goes,' and there you are.  He'sa brave lad, a good lad, full of mischief I know, but--but he's full ofdetermination too.  William will go a long way.  I will not live to seeit; my days are few now, but I'll die the happier," he added softly,"for having known William Adolphus Turnpike."CHAPTER XIIIt was a big feeling William that reported for duty on the succeedingMonday morning.  "Importance" was written large on his face, and againexpressed in his every action.  Lucien Torrance timidly venturedseveral questions in the hope of elucidating the why and wherefore ofWilliam's attitude without receiving any reply.  "Say," drawled Williamafter another attempt on Lucien's part, "what's the difference betweenyou and a clam?""I don't know.""Of course you don't; a fellow like you'd never know.""Well, what is the difference?" demanded Lucien desperately."Well, a clam ain't no good unless it's baked, and that's what's thematter with you, Lucien Torrance."  Whereupon Lucien imitated a clam tothe extent of shutting his mouth and keeping it shut.In the afternoon, Whimple having departed to the law courts, where thegrowth of his business was beginning to take him quite often, Williamordered Lucien to keep an eye on the office while he went across theroad to study the baseball scores.  "The way them Torontos is playin'on the road," he added by way of explanation, "has me goin'!  They wonfive outer the last six games, and they're up against the Buffaloesto-day, and that's a hard team to beat.  But Torontos can do it,b'lieve me--two outer three from Buffaloes my guess--have you got any?""No--I don't care who wins.  Baseball doesn't interest me.""What's that!  Say, you're the limit; the last--the very last limit.Is there any game whatever that stirs your thick blood?""Lawn tennis.""Lawn--Oh, cheese it, Lucien, cheese it.  First thing I know you'll betellin' me you play chess too.""Indeed I do.  Father is teaching me the game; we play nearly everynight.""Halt! who goes there?"  William rolled out the words as though thefate of armies depended on them.  "The ch-e-eld wonder of thecen-tury," he went on, waving his arms dramatically.  "Pass thech-e-eld wonder and be careful with him."  He walked around thebewildered Lucien, pretending to examine his head very closely.  "Ah,"he said, after the first scrutiny, "now I begin to tumble."  His voicewas now low-pitched and full of pathos.  "Now I'm getting on to thereason for those grey hairs on so young a head."  He placed one hand onLucien's shoulder, and covered his own eyes with the other.  "Meboy--m-boy," he murmured brokenly, "you're breaking my heart, my strongmanly heart what's held up this many a year--against who knows what.Lucien, Lucien, you're burning the gas in both jets, to say nothing ofthe escape in the middle.  Leave me, boy--leave me to my grief."Lucien brushed William's hand off his shoulder and blurted out angrily,"You're crazy.""Well, I'd sooner be crazy, if I am crazy, than be sane the way youare," returned William loftily.  "'Chuck' Epstein says everybody's gota looney streaker some kind; else, he says, they'd all die young.  It'sa tough outlook for you, Lucien," he added as he departed.Ten minutes later William returned, bringing with him a fine bulldogattached to a stout string.  William's eyes were shining, and his lipswere parted in a wide grin of delight.  "Say," he cried to Lucien, "geton to the pup."Lucien didn't like the looks of the dog, and backed hastily away."Aw gee, he won't eat you," said William disgustedly.  "He's a goodone, a prize winner; and the cop says Briscombe the banker owns him.""Well, what are you doing with him?""Me!  The dog just nat-ur-ally adopted me, Lucien.  I was standinglooking at the bulletins--and the Torontos is leadin', don't you forgetit--when I feels something rubbing at me leg, and here's his nibsmaking up kinder friendly like.  So I takes hold of the string andhunts up a cop and tells him about it.  And I says, 'He looks like agood dog,' I says, 'I s'pose you can take him over to the station andleave him till the owner's found.'  And the cop says, 'Not for mine,'he says, 'I ain't going off my beat to be a godfather to no dog.  Itbelongs to Mr. Bill Briscombe,' he says, 'and I'll bet he'll give you atwo spot if you take it to him.'  So I goes along to Briscombe's bank,and the place is shut up tighter'n a drum.  Say, but them bankers hasthe classy hours.  And Briscombe lives about a mile north of the citylimits, so I guess I'll have to take the dog up there to-night.""Well, where are you going to put him in the meantime?""I'll just hitch him up to Mr. Whimple's table.  He won't be in tillnear closing time, and then he'll just tell me I needn't stay, like heusually does."And forthwith the dog was hitched.  He did not display any decidedsigns of displeasure, though evidently ill at ease.  Lucien could notbe persuaded to go near the dog, but William was quite solicitous forthe animal's welfare.  He fed it on tea biscuits, surreptitiouslyabstracted from Lucien's luncheon box--that worthy being somewhatpartial to the delicacy.  Also overlooking the formality of askingpermission, he used Lucien's cap as a holder for a liberal helping ofice water from the office jug.  The dog ate the biscuits, but spurnedthe ice water, which William promptly emptied from the open window.Then things happened.When the ice water fell, most of it fell upon the head of adistinguished K.C., who was using his hat as a fan while he discussedwith an acquaintance some of the questions attendant upon a provincialelection then looming up.  Some of the water sprinkled the K.C.'sacquaintance.  Both men looked up quickly enough to note drops of watertrickling from the sill of the open window, and as one, both turned anddashed up the front stairway to Whimple's office.  William's hearingwas acute; he did not like the sound of the hasty footsteps, and he wasquick to surmise the cause.  He made for the back stairway anddescending in quick time, traversed the lane until, by a roundaboutway, he emerged on the street, and came to a standstill at a point onthe opposite side of the street, but in front of the office building.The K.C. and his acquaintance by this time had burst into the officeand dashed into Whimple's room on the run, not noticing the dog, overwhich the former fell full length.  The bulldog had no particulargrievance against the K.C., but he had a decided objection to playingcushion to him, and he snapped at the first thing he could get histeeth into.  This, fortunately for the ornament of the bar, happened tobe his coat tail, and on this the dog took a firm and impassioned hold.The K.C., by this time aware of the dog's presence, half rolled andhalf scrambled toward the door, the dog hanging so determinedly to thecoat tails that, between the combined efforts of man and dog, the tablebegan to move, and moved until it stuck at the jambs of the door.  Thedog could not go any further; the K.C. gave a final rolling jerk thatleft the dog half choked, but plus a large section of coat tail.  TheK.C. thereupon rose, dust-covered, his dignity gone, murder in hisheart, wrath on his face.Lucien Torrance seized this unfortunate moment to leave the office ofhis employer and to enter that of William's.  With a cry ofsatisfaction, the K.C. sprang at him.  "Now I have you, you youngvillain," he shouted, and without more ado he posed the frightened anddazed Lucien in an old-fashioned attitude across William's desk, and ina manner that bespoke some knowledge, proceeded to thrash him.Lucien was screaming, "It wasn't me--it wasn't me," when Whimpleentered the office, also on the run, flung aside the perspiringK.C., righted Lucien, whom, on his entrance, he had thoughtwas William, and demanded angrily the meaning of the disturbance.The K.C. wrathfully explained from his point of view; Lucientearfully, but firmly, declared that he was in no wayresponsible. "William--brought--the--dog--here," he sobbed,"and--he--threw--the--water out of the window."  There were cries for"William," but no William responded, and all the time the dog, hangingon to the captured piece of coat tail, surveyed the scene in calmsilence.Whimple and the K.C., after some further parleying, essayed the task ofreleasing the dog and allowing the K.C.'s friend to leave Whimple'sroom.  But they found themselves confronting a problem that their legaltraining could not solve.  For the dog, thinking that they wanted histrophy, laid the piece of coat tail on the floor, placed thereon onepaw, and bared his teeth for fight.  Both men were angry; both men werepuzzled.  Each urged the other to action, and each held the otherinferentially to be lacking in courage.It was Lucien who suggested a way out.  "If the gentleman in Mr.Whimple's room would get on the table from the back and cut the string,the dog would run away, I'm sure."The plan was adopted, Whimple, Lucien, and the K.C. having first takena strategic position in the corridor leading to the rooms of Simmons,the architect.  The string was cut, and the bulldog, having again takenthe piece of coat tail between his teeth, walked slowly out of theoffice and down the stairs to the street.  William saw him emerge, andran across the road.  The dog greeted him in a friendly manner, andWilliam, taking the now shortened string, started for Briscombe'sresidence, for, said he to the dog, "It looks to me like there's beensome trouble, and I guess I'd better not go back to the office untilthe morning."And Briscombe, the banker, gave William two dollars for bringing thedog home.  "But," said he, "where on earth did he get that piece ofcloth?""I ain't sure, but I think I could make a good guess, MisterBriscombe," said William, and thereupon he departed for home, wherelater he slept the profound sleep characteristic of all office boys.CHAPTER XIIIWilliam was at the office half an hour earlier than usual the nextmorning.  He entered cautiously by the back stair, and reconnoitredcarefully before closing the door.  Lucien was the only person insight.  He preserved a profound silence to William's first questioningsas to the happenings of the previous afternoon, but when William gavehim one minute in which to decide on fighting or telling the story, hetold.  His narrative was curt and his demeanour cold: it became quitefrosty when William laughed delightedly over the recital of thethrashing Lucien had received."Where did he hit you, Lucien?" asked William when the story had beentold."In this room," answered Lucien with dignity, and William roared again.Lucien waited until the laughter died away and then called attention tothe fact that there was a letter on William's desk.  "You're right foronce, Lucien," said William, who had noticed the letter on firstentering the room.  He picked it up, aware that Lucien was watching himclosely, and feeling certain that the letter did not contain good newsfor him.  Therefore he slipped it into his pocket and walked out of theoffice to the Bay front, where, with his feet dangling over one of thewharves, he slowly opened the envelope and unfolded the enclosure.  Theletter was as follows:--"DEAR WILLIAM,--In view of the events of this afternoon, the fulldetails of which by the time you get this you will doubtless havegleaned from Lucien, it is impossible that you should longer remain inmy employ.  I am very sorry to lose you, but there is a limit to thelength that even an office boy can be allowed to go."Yours sincerely,  "CHAS. WHIMPLE.""Fired!" said William to himself, "fired!  Well, I ain't surprised.Tough luck though."  He read the letter through again, and continuedhis soliloquy.  "Well, after this, no more dogs for me.  Gee--but Ihate to leave that place.  It beats the band how things will turn outrotten just when the luck seems to be all right."But William didn't spend much time in regrets.  The day was blazinghot, the civic tug for the free baths off the Island sand bar was aboutto leave the wharf, and he constituted himself a part of the noisyhuman freight with which it was laden.  He had a glorious swim, and atnoon time surprised the Turnpike household by arriving for luncheon,having during his business career eaten that meal--packed by hismother's hands--in the office.  Quite frankly, and with the mimicrywhich was the pride of his father and a constant source of astonishmentto his mother, he related the whole story.  His mother grieved despiteher laughter: his father laughed and sorrowed not.  "It'll come outright in the end," he said philosophically, "and if it don't, you'llsoon get another job.""Sure," said William; "don't you worry, Ma," he added.  After the mealhe departed, his head full of a plan that had been nebulous only afterhis first reading of the letter, but which now seemed to promise much.The more he thought it over, the better he liked it, and despite theheat, he walked quickly to the "Emporium" of one Walter Wadsworth.Walter was the owner, manager, and entire staff of the "Emporium,"which consisted of a rickety two-storied structure with a shootinggallery on one side, and a peanut, candy, tobacco, and fruit departmenton the other side.  Walter, whose friendship with William was as oldalmost as the boy himself, owned the building and the land, as well asa more valuable property near by.  But his greater claim to importance,in the opinion of most of the boyhood of Toronto, lay in the fact thatfor years he had held the refreshment privileges in the baseball park.After a few preliminaries, William said, "The team's due next week,ain't they?""According to schedule," answered Walter, a thick-set, pleasant-faced,middle-aged man, who wasted few words, and who, in his day, had been astar of the diamond."How's the chances for a job?""I thought you were in the law business, young fellow?""Well--I was kinder makin' a dab at it.""Chucked it already?""No," said William, "it kinder chucked me."Umph!  Watcher want?""Well, what's the matter with me having a basket and selling stuffaround the stands?""You're on, William: you're on.  I've had an awful bunch of dubs on thejob so far this season, and I'd be glad to let you have a try.""All right: and what do I get for it?" asked William in a business-liketone."Well, of course, you see the game for nothing.""Yes--" said William, slowly, "or some of it, between sales.""Well, I never knew any one of the boys yet but could give all thedetails of the game, whether his sales were good or not.  I guess youwon't miss much of any of the games.""Go on--I see the games free," said William, "and----" he paused."And you get ten cents commission on every dollar's worth of stuff yousell.""Any of the boys ever say they got too much?" inquired William, with apretence of eager interest.Walter smiled.  "Not that I remember," he answered, "but they don't doso bad.""All right," said William, "I'll be on hand for Monday's game.  But Ican't afford to be loafin' until then.  Anything doin' before that?""This place ain't had a cleaning up since I don't know when," repliedWalter, "and there's a lot of old boxes in the back yard that have tobe broken up for firewood sooner or later, and stored in the cellar.Want to tackle the job?  There's a few dollars in it anyway.""Sure," said William, and set to work forthwith.  He toiled steadily inthe Emporium, but not with his usual cheerfulness, for he was reallysorry to be away from Whimple's office.  The more he thought of thecauses leading up to his dismissal, the more he wished that Lucien hadbeen responsible.  "He got the lickin' anyway," said William to himselfwith a smile, "but darn a fellow like that: I wonder if he ever made afool of himself in his life."It was at this moment that William noticed a large megaphone, one ofWalter's cherished possessions, in the back part of the Emporium."Say, Walter," he cried excitedly, "let me have a crack at themegaphone.""Go ahead," said Walter good-naturedly, "but don't blame me if you getpinched for disturbing the peace."William carried the megaphone upstairs, rested one end on the sill ofthe open window, and took a critical survey of the passers-by on thestreet."Wow!" he cried aloud, and as though addressing some one in the room;"look who's acomin'."  He hastily adjusted the megaphone, waited untilhe thought the person he had spoken of was within striking range, andthen there arose a weird shriek that attracted the attention ofeverybody within seven blocks of the Emporium.  It filled the heart ofone boy momentarily with fear, and brought him to a sudden standstillwithout at once becoming acquainted with the source of the noise.  Helooked around bewildered, and, as he looked, voices seemed to bellow inboth his ears, "Good evening, Lucien.  How many stamps did you lickto-day?"Several people halted, irresolute, eventually focussing their gaze onLucien, who, having now noticed the megaphone, was staring towards itlike one under the influence of hypnotism.  Again a question bellowedforth from the megaphone, "Oh, Lucien: where did he hit you?" andLucien, waking up to the truth of the situation, for once displayedsome evidences of his youth.  He shook his fists towards the openwindow, and cried out threats of vengeance on William, but those weresoon drowned in another blast from the megaphone.  "Get on to Lucien,ladies and gents, the chee-ild wonder of the century."  It was thenthat Lucien, with a final shake of his fists, turned and fled.  Williamlaid the megaphone away and walked down the stairs, to find Walter atthe door gazing after the fleeing Lucien."That kid was hollering something about knocking your block off," saidWalter.  "He seemed to be sore on you.""Maybe he is," answered William, slyly, "but yesterday he was sore forme."CHAPTER XIVDuring the next few days William found plenty of work to do at theEmporium, and in the intervals of leisure he consulted gravely withWalter Wadsworth on the methods to be followed to attain success as apedlar of refreshments in the stands of a baseball park.  He did not,however, neglect his morning lessons with "Chuck" Epstein in TommyWatson's auctioneering rooms.  There is this to be added too, thatneither Epstein nor Tommy questioned him as to the loss of his positionwith Whimple.  They had laughed with the latter over the causestherefor, but as William did not mention it himself, they carefullyavoided opening up the question, knowing from their experience with himthat, in his own way, and at a time of his choosing, the lad would talkof it.William was, however, a puzzle to Wadsworth, though he had beenacquainted with him so long.  In the intimacy of their relationship atthe Emporium, Wadsworth found himself constantly amazed at the lad'sshrewdness, at his vocabulary of slang, the readiness with which hecould turn from the sheerest of jibing and fun-making to the recital ofa bit of "Bill Shakespeare," or a scene from the plays of otherauthors.  "Where on earth do you get it all from?" he asked William oneafternoon when the lad, with real dramatic fire, had recited "Henry'soration to his men before Agincourt."  You, dear reader, know it, ofcourse."Outer books," William said, all slang and smiles again.  "Say, Walter,it beats the band and the good stuff some of them guys had in theirthink-tanks, and it fits in, a lot of it, like they were toddlin'around Toronto to-day.""It certainly does--some of it," said Walter.  "I wonder if they everplayed baseball in those days?""Not so far as I can make out," answered William.  "Half their timethey were fighting, and the other half making love: that is, most of'em.  Our friend Bill Shakespeare and a few others were writing playsand acting them too."Walter stood at the door for a minute and watched William as the latterwalked away from the Emporium that evening, and to himself he said,"He's a corker that one; but there's a heap of boy in him.  If therewasn't, that stuff he's carrying around in his brain would soon drivehim to the daffy house."The great day arrived at last, and William, keen for business and a newexperience, reported early at the baseball grounds, where WalterWadsworth supplied him and a dozen other boys with uniforms of whitecotton.  The caps bore in letters of gold an appeal to buy a certainbaking powder, and on the back of the coats, in black letters, was anannouncement regarding the charms of a particular brand of chewingtobacco."It's a shame," said William with sarcasm, "that there ain't anyreading on the pants.""Yes, it is too bad," answered Walter, solemnly, "but you can never geteverything you want in this world.  I get the caps and the suits freefor the advertising they have on 'em; they're not so bad, it might beworse.""It might be," answered William, "but not much," as he departed for hissection of the grand stand with a basket hanging from his neck and asmall megaphone attached to one wrist with a strap.  In the stand,William's courage deserted him for a few minutes: the crowd was largeand included many ladies.  The lad was uncomfortable; his voice seemedto have deserted him utterly.  All the fine things he had meant to saywere for the moment forgotten.  It was not until a woman had purchaseda bag of peanuts, and a man a cigar, that William became convinced thathis goods were wanted, and that restored some of his usual confidence.He began to call out his wares and found that sales were easily made,though not so rapidly as he had hoped.  But as the game progressed, hiscourage steadily rose.  The Toronto team was playing that of Buffalo,an ancient and honorable enemy, and the game, in its initial stages,was very close.  With the score one to one in the third innings,William found that his voice had come back, and he began to use it withall his power and most of his courage."Peanuts, popcorn, chewing gum, candy, cigars, and tobacco," he shoutedas he walked along the aisles: "here's where you get 'em at the lowestprices and finest qual-ity."The responses were becoming readier, but not fast enough, and Williambegan to use the megaphone.  Taking a stand in front of the lowest seatand addressing the crowd impartially he asked, "Did all you folks leaveyour money at home, or ain't you never had any?"  Some of the peoplelaughed, and the emboldened William went on, "Ladies, what's the goodof a ball game without peanuts or chewing gum?  I've got a lot of bothto sell," and that resulted in a goodly number of sales.  Then he triedagain.  "There's lots of fellows here with girls, and it's a shame theway they're letting the girls suffer for a little candy, or chewinggum, or peanuts.  Make the fellows loosen up, girls!"  The crowdlaughed, and William tried in vain to respond to the demands for hiswares from all quarters.  His basket was soon emptied, and in a littlewhile he had disposed of his second load.  He sold others, but when thegame had advanced to the sixth innings, with the score still one all,he found the people almost unresponsive to his appeals, and, returningto Walter's little store under the grand stand, changed into his streetclothes and rushed back to see the finish of the game, his firstventure as a pedlar having netted him the sum of fifty cents.The game had reached its critical stage, "the fatal seventh innings,"when William again made his appearance known.  The crowd was painfullysilent, for the Buffaloes, with only one man out, had men on the firstand second bases, and the heaviest hitter of their team at the bat.The batsman spat on his hands, wiped them off in the dust around thehome plate, and set himself firmly for a swing.  The Toronto pitcherhaving almost succeeded in tying himself into a bow knot suddenlyunloosened, and sent in a swift drop ball, and even as it sped thevoice of William, well modulated through the megaphone, but quitedistinct, cried out, "Strike one."  Strike it was, the batter missingthe sphere by several feet, and following the miss there came instentorian tones from the umpire the words, "Strike one.""Why did you call it a strike before?" yelled the batsman."Never opened my mouth," retorted the umpire, and the crowd laughed.The batsman again set himself for a swing, and the pitcher once moretried to make a human knot; again the ball shot, this time straight andtrue for the plate, and as it did, William, with a volume of agonisedpleading in his voice, yelled, "Mind your head."  Instinctively thebatter ducked and, of course, missed the ball, while the umpiredispassionately cried, "Strike two."  The batter grieved loudly andbitterly.  He accused the umpire of having eyes like a codfish, and ofbeing stampeded by "some guy in the stand."  He declared him to beincompetent to the verge of insanity, and wondered, in a voice thatcould be heard all over the field, how he had kept out of the asylum solong.  His team mates supported him loyally, and incidentally demandedof the Toronto team's manager that William, whom they had discovered asthe source of the heavy batter's discomfort, be instantly removed fromthe grounds and kept therefrom until the game was over, while theimpatient, but delighted crowd, cried at intervals, "play ball," "put'em off," "give the game to the Torontos."The manager of the Torontos disclaimed all or any responsibility forWilliam.  "Nay, nay, Pauline," he said gently, when the Buffalo managerrepeated his request, "if the boy annoys you, put him out yourself, orask the police to do it.""You know what'd happen if I tackled that boy," answered the Buffaloman heatedly: "why, that crowd would eat me.""Not in your present condition," retorted the Toronto man affably,"you're too hot."The Buffalonian appealed to a police constable, but that worthy shookhis head.  "There's only me and a sergeant here," he said, "and weain't over anxious to start a riot."  The sergeant strolled up and wasconsulted."It can't be done," he said sagely, "there isn't a section under thelaw or the regulations governing the force that'd justify me puttingthe kid out.  He ain't hurting anybody anyway.""But he's putting our man on the pork," cried the Buffaloniandisgustedly; "how in the name of Uncle Sam is the team to go on playingwith that kind of a racket!""It's nothing to the racket there'll be if you don't go on with thegame," said the sergeant quietly, as he walked back to the stand.  Andthe game went on.  The batter was struck out on the next ball, and thecrowd shrieked its delight, the innings closing without a score.When the eighth innings started, William, all swagger and confidence,started on a new tack.  "Fans and fan-esses," he said, addressing thecrowd through the megaphone, "why don't you root?  Make a noise likeyou meant it.  The Torontos have simply gotter win this game; they needit, but you gotter help 'em.  Now then, every-body--ROOT," and "root"they did, arduously, continuously, joyously.  The din was terrific,ear-splitting, and weird.  Everybody had a different idea as to thebest methods of rooting, and even the fanesses made noises of sorts.Nobody thereafter heard what the umpire said, they gathered hisdecisions only by the result of the various plays, and when, in theninth and last innings, the Torontos batted out the winning run, oneprolonged wild "root" spread the glad tidings to all and sundry outsidethe gates for many blocks around.William, with a final yell through the megaphone, hurried back toWalter Wadsworth's stand, and there ran into Whimple and Simmons, whowere pledging each other in glasses of lemonade.  The boy pausedirresolutely."William," said Whimple, who was also rather embarrassed, "was it fair?"William smiled.  "Well, Mister Whimple," he said, "when that bunch washere once last season for a series of five games, my Pa took theirstuff from the station up to the hotel in one of his express wagons,and I was with him, so, of course, I helped to lift the stuff off thewagon, and when I'm through the same manager what they have this yearslips something into my hand and I thought it was a dime, and he saysto me, 'I hate to give a Canuck anything,' he says, 'but you are abright chap, only don't spend it all at once,' and when he goes intothe hotel I opens up my hand, and there's one of them dinky littleAmerican cents.  You bet I was mad, but my Pa says to me, 'It's mostlya long street that don't have cross streets, William,' he says, 'so,keep your hair on.'  I did, and I guess me and that Buffalo man arequits now."CHAPTER XVOne afternoon, a few days afterwards, Whimple, dropping into TommyWatson's store, found the auctioneer and "Chuck" Epstein gravelyexamining a doll's carriage and its occupant, a doll eminentlyrespectable in mien and terrifically blue of eye."Is this a new line, Tommy?" Whimple asked."No--it's 'Chuck's' purchase, he intends to present the outfit to a younglady.""To Dolly Turnpike," said Epstein quietly, "it's her birthday to-morrow;what do you think of it?"Whimple examined the carriage and the doll as closely and as gravely asthe others had done, and expressed the opinion that it was all right.  Headded the hope that the young lady would think so too, and the opinionthat she was extremely fortunate in having among her friends sothoughtful a man as Epstein.It is doubtful if Epstein heard him, although it was quiet enough in theback part of the store where the three had conducted their examination.Whimple started to repeat his hope when he became aware that Tommy wasshaking his head and holding a finger to his lips.  Whimple thereuponbroke off in the middle of a sentence and kept silence.Epstein was looking at him, but not with the eyes of one who sees theobject he gazes on.  Whimple thought to himself that he had never dreamedthe retired comedian was as old as he looked now.  He wondered if itwould be kindly taken if he should advise the old man that home and arest in bed would brace him up a little, when Epstein began to speak."My little girl," he said, in the rich round voice his friends loved tohear, "was born on the same day of the month that Dolly was.  Only, along time ago--quite a long time ago, or perhaps I only dream that it waslong ago," he stammered and paused, and then went on.  "She would havebeen thirty years old now, wedded, no doubt, a mother, perhaps--whatdreams--what dreams----"  Again he paused.Tommy Watson rose softly, went to the front door, deliberately locked it,and then returned to Whimple and Epstein--who was talking again.  "I hadretired from the stage, happy and contented, to take up a businesscareer, so that I might be with my wife and child, and the otherchildren, if they should come.  We loved so well--we loved sowell--and--and----" again a long pause.  And then, as though some one hadspoken to him, "Yes, yes, I went back to the stage again, but that wasafterwards; and how they welcomed me and cheered me and praised me; for Imade them laugh as in the olden time, but my heart was gone."My little girl was two years old when we began to notice the shadow.Just two; with a wealth of brown hair and eyes, her eyes--they were browntoo; such a brown, so wonderful, and they were her mother's eyes.  Theshadow darkened; the little tongue became strangely quiet, the littlelimbs were tired so easily, the little hands were all too often idle.But how she clung to us--she seemed to know that she must go, and so sheslipped away at last, so gently--so gently--and we could not hold her."What is a man anyway?" he demanded abruptly, but they did not speak:they knew he did not see them.  "What is a man?" he reiterated.  "I havemade thousands laugh the world over: I have driven away their sorrows andheartaches, for a few hours at least, but I could not drive away theshadow; I could not, I could not.  Nor could she who held first place inmy heart and first place in the heart of our darling."  His voice loweredagain and he went on, "After--after--we had laid her little body in thegraveyard we went to the home of a friend, thinking--thinking: I know notwhat.  But when the night came, I could not rest nor even sit still, andall the while she was listening, listening, and looking at her arms.  Iknew, I knew: for my heart was bleeding too, and at last I took her arm,and together we went back to our own home; 'For it seems to me,' said mywife, 'that I hear the patter of her little feet moving about the rooms,and I hear her crying, "Mamma: Dad-dy:" and we are not there, Jacob, andshe'll be so lonely, so lonely.'"I was thinking that too.  I could not have stayed away, and so back wewent.  She--she--my wife, seemed more content there.  But always Inoticed that she seemed to be listening and waiting, and often she smiledand talked as though she was answering the little one, but--but----" hishead was drooping, he seemed to be falling asleep.  Whimple stirreduneasily, and Tommy Watson, whose cheeks were wet with tears, shook awarning finger at him.  The old man looked up again.  "The shadow cameagain," he said quietly, "and somewhere--somewhere--they are waiting forme.  Men differ on religion, and fight over the future state.  What do Iknow of it?  I don't know.  A Jew, though a British subject born, acomedian--some say I have no religion, and never had.  I don't know.But, oh!  I know they wait for me--and where they wait is home."For a long time there was silence; Epstein was the first to break it.  Hestood up suddenly, and with a new light in his eyes asked of Whimple, asthough seeing him for the first time that day, how he liked the carriageand the doll."Fine," said Whimple as heartily as he could, for his throat was lumpyand his heart was beating quickly."I'm glad of that.  Why, what's the matter, Tommy, you look as though youhad been crying?""Slight cold in the head," returned Tommy rather abruptly, "rotten timeof the year to get a cold too.""It'll be all right in a day or two, I hope," said Epstein.  "I must begoing to Turnpike's.  I want them to give this to Dolly to-morrow.  Youknow I had a baby girl one time"--he proceeded quite firmly--"she--shedied--and Rachel, her mother, followed--shortly.  We called herDolly--after Flo Dearmore's mother, who was very good to us"--here helooked smilingly at Tommy, who had blushed at the mention of Flo'sname--"my little girl had beautiful brown eyes--just like DollyTurnpike's."He left them then.  Whimple lingered a little while and finally blurtedout--"I never knew that about Epstein.""I've heard little bits of it," said Tommy, whose eyes were still moist."Say, but he's a wonder though."  Whimple agreed.  Twice he made asthough to go, and after the second attempt he asked bluntly, "DoesWilliam come here every morning yet?""Yes," answered Tommy."Well, I--that is----" he did not finish the sentence, and did not knowhow he could, but Tommy saved him.  "That's all right," he said, "I'llsend him over right after his lesson to-morrow.  Whimple, you know whatthe good book says: it's more blessed to take a man on again than torefuse to give him another chance.""Well, I don't just remember that," said Whimple, "but I do know thatI've had sixty applicants in response to my advertisement for an officeboy, and of all the----""I know--I know," broke in Tommy, "there's mighty few William AdolphusTurnpikes in this world, and he'll be just as glad to get back as youwill be to have him.""Confound him," said Whimple, but he laughed as he said it."Sure, but that'll be all right so long as the two of you get togetheragain."When Whimple reached the office the next morning he found William there.The lad's face was shining with pleasure.  "I'm sorry about that dogbusiness, Mister Whimple," he said, "and I'll try to be good.""All right, William," said Whimple happily, "let it go at that."  But tothe surprised and disgruntled Lucien Torrance, William said darkly,"Well, what between you and the bunch that was after my job, I guessMister Whimple was nearly crazy.  It's more'n one man can stand forkeeping you straight; it beats me how your own boss can put up with it."CHAPTER XVIThe provincial political pot, which had been simmering all through theearly spring, boiled over in July of that year.  The Legislature wasdissolved with all the solemn formalities attendant upon the death ofan important public body, and many gentlemen with aspirations forpublic office or government jobs found that they must forego much ofthe joy that was offered in the shape of baseball, lacrosse, and rowingfixtures, and get out and hustle for their respective "grand old party."The issues at stake in the contest, according to Tommy Watson, weresuch as no self-respecting auctioneer could put on the block at anysale and not blush for shame.  "It's just a case," said he, "of thegovernment, knowing they cannot be beaten, wanting to make sure of anew lease of power," and Tommy, as usual, was not far wrong.  But ifthere were no really great issues in a general sense, there was a bigone in Mid-Toronto, and stripped of all party rhetoric and verbiage itwas this: "Shall 'The Big Wind' continue to represent us?"The people were tired of "The Big Wind."  So was the government.  Butthe government dare not say so, while the people--including the manywho had voted for him four years before--hoped that "The Big Wind" (hisreal name does not belong to this chronicle of facts) would have senseenough to blow himself out of public life.  He might have done that ifsome of those who called themselves his friends had been strong enoughin their friendship to have so advised him.  For even in themoments--and they were many--when he thought much of himself, "The BigWind" had glimmerings of common sense.The government had taken him up for reasons that at the time seemed tobe sufficient.  He was the sole male survivor of a family that had donemuch for Toronto; was the possessor of a large fortune, and a liberalgiver to charities, as his father in his lifetime had been; hisposition socially was distinguished, and he was a handsome man, talland straight, with a fine olive-complexioned face, well set off withmustachios and an imperial.  Much had been hoped from him, a cabinetposition was in his reach, until the day he made his first speech inthe Provincial House.  That was a day indeed.  The party papers hadblazoned the announcement the day before that on the morrow "The BigWind" would make his maiden address in the House, taking as his subject"two or three important matters in connection with the budget.  A raretreat is in store for those who will be able to attend," and all therest of the hyperbole that the party papers--except yours, dearreader--are wont to indulge in.  Of course, the galleries of the Housewere crowded, and on the floor every member was in his seat.  In thepress gallery the attendance of managers and editorial writers was aslarge as that of the men who do the real work on newspapers--thereporters.  All the reporters representing the government papers hadbeen instructed to give "The Big Wind" pretty fully, while the men fromthe opposition papers had been informed that they might give him a"good show."  When he arose to address the House, the government sidegreeted him with cheers, and the opposition joined in the desk poundingthat followed."The Big Wind" started gracefully--he always did that, and the Houselistened indulgently while he patted every one on the back--notforgetting himself.  This occupied some fifteen minutes, during whichthe reporters began to ask one another in whispers, "Why doesn't he getgoing?"  They were beginning to wonder if he would ever get going whenhe said, "And now, Mr. Speaker, as to the budget."  There was asuppressed "Ah!" in the press gallery, followed by a surprised "Oh!"when "The Big Wind" averred that "budgets" had been known since theworld began.  He delved into a pile of manuscript, and made someallusion to the Book of Genesis--without giving any one the slightestidea of what he was talking about.  He paid a great deal of attentionto Genesis, he stayed with it for an hour or so, in fact.  People beganto leave the galleries, members left the chamber to find solace in thesmoking-room or the library.  The managing editor of the chief leadinggovernment organ, who had condescended to take a seat in the pressgallery, told the three reporters representing the paper to cut thespeech to one column, and himself returned to his office.  An hourlater this editor telephoned to the press gallery and asked one of hisreporters, "Say, where is that chump now?""Well," answered the reporter, "he's just figuring on leading thechildren of Israel into the promised land.""It's a pity the Egyptians couldn't kill him," shouted the editor; "cuthim down to half a column."And "The Big Wind" went on blowing.  At six o'clock he had left thechildren of Israel to their fate, and was grappling with the Normaninvasion of England.  The House adjourned for dinner then, and it is onrecord that as they walked the corridor to the dining-room, a member ofthe cabinet asked the premier, "Where in the name of all we stand foris this fellow going to land?" that the premier, without even the traceof a blush, answered in two words, and that one of them rhymed with"well.""The Big Wind" resumed his address at eight o'clock at night andconcluded it at eleven, with a few playful allusions to the PeninsularWar and an expression of regret that time did not permit of his dealingwith other matters no less important.And this was the man that Mid-Toronto was asked to return again becausehis own party was afraid to antagonise him, and the opposition feltthat they hadn't a ghost of show to carry a riding that for twentyyears had beaten their candidates by large majorities.  It lookedindeed as though "The Big Wind" might be elected by acclamation.Two weeks before the official nomination, Whimple, himself a dabbler inpolitics and a supporter of the government, heard, with other rumours,that an independent candidate would be in the field in Mid-Toronto, andthe next morning the rumours were declared, by no less a personage thanWilliam Adolphus Turnpike, to have truth as their foundation."You live in Mid-Toronto, William," said Whimple, jocularly, "and youought to know what's going on there!""Well, I know a few things," said William, smilingly."Such as----" and Whimple paused."Politics," said William, grinning."Yes!""A fight--a fight, and it'll be a loller-palluselar.""A what?""That's just a word my Pa uses, Mister Whimple--honest, I couldn't sayit more'n once a day.""And who's going to fight 'The Big Wind,' pray?""The People's Party.""The--what--oh!  I say, William, what kind of a game is this?""No yarn--it's straight goods.  The People's Party was formed lastnight, and picked their man.""But, how do you know that?  There's nothing in the papers about itthis morning.""No, because Tommy Watson's the press agent and secretary, and he saysit's time enough to give it to the papers to-night, so he's going to doit.""Tommy Watson!  What on earth is he butting in for?  He doesn't live inthe riding!""No, but he was at the meetin', him and a few others--about sevenaltogether--and he says, 'I'll keep the minutes,' he says, 'and load upthe papers.'  The meetin' was held in our house," William went on, "andmy Pa was elected to the chair.  Gee! it was an elegant meetin': Pamade a corking speech.  He says, '"The Big Wind" ain't to blame muchfor thinking he's the white-haired darlin',' he says, 'because hisfriends should put him wise that he ain't.'  And Tony Gaston, whatdrives oner Jimmy Duggan's coal-wagons, he says, 'The Bigga de Wind isan awful mutt,' so he ups and asks why don't Jimmy Duggan run, so Pasays 'Carried,' and Tommy Watson makes 'em do it all reg'lar, and theyforms the People's Party and puts Jimmy Duggan up for their man.""It sounds foolish," said Wimple, reflectively."Well," said William, slowly, "that's what Tommy Watson says.  'Itlooks foolish,' he says, 'and that's just where a lot of other people'sgoin' to be made look foolish too.  The party men'll be thinkingthere's no chance for Jimmy, and first thing you know he'll slip in.'So they asked Jimmy is he game, and Jimmy says he's game to buck upagainst any government anywheres, he says, especially one what'll standfor 'The Big Wind.'"William paused, and then went on slowly, "Say, Mister Whimple, my Pa'sa wonder to know what's what, and he says quite solemn to Tommy Watsonafter the meeting's over, 'Jimmy's the best man in a fight of any kindI ever knew,' he says; 'b'lieve me, Mister Watson,' he says, 'he'llpunc-ture "The Big Wind."  This part of the city don't have to standfor a gas-bag that ain't even got sense enough to burst when it's toofull, and we ain't going to stand for it,' he says."CHAPTER XVIIWhimple found the secretary and press agent of the People's Partybusily engaged in the back of his store preparing reports of thenomination meeting for the newspapers."What's this I hear about a fight in Mid-Toronto, Tommy?" he asked."Meaning that the news has been gently broken to you by one WilliamAdolphus Turnpike?""Yes.""Well, put your money on Jimmy Duggan, coal and woodyard man, defenderof the rights of the common people, candidate of the People's Party,the valiant David that's going to knock the stuffing out of the falseGoliar----""Isn't it Goliath?" suggested Whimple, mildly."Well, maybe you're right, but, any way, there'll be an awful explosionin Mid-Toronto on August tenth, duly fixed by royal proclamation as theday on which the manhood of this fair province----""Oh, drop it, Tommy----""If the gentleman has any questions to ask I'll be pleased to answerthem at the close of my address," Tommy went on.  "I was about to saythis fair province of Toronto, rising in their might, will go to thepolls, well knowing that under the freedom and liberty which is theirsby right of the grand old flag----""Tommy, shut up!""I was about to say, they can vote as they darned well please, and thesame will be mostly the way they've voted every election the lastfifteen years--except in Mid-Toronto.""Are you through?""Well, that's all I can think of just now.""But what's the use?  You haven't got the shadow of a chance.  Why, thegovernment 'll be returned hands down.""Sure; but 'The Big Wind' won't.  He'll be returned sky high.  Don'tyou forget it.  Why, Mid-Toronto's just seething, Whimple--justseething.  Every patriotic soul in the riding is repeating thatwell-known verse from Bill Shakespeare's 'Saturday Night in London':--  'Breathes there a man with soul so punk,  Who never to himself has thunk,  By hedges and by hook or crook,  We'll surely give Big Wind the Hook.'""Shakespeare!  Shakespeare!  Are you sure, Tommy?""Well, perhaps it wasn't him; but he's as good as any to tack it to.""But, Tommy--seriously, is Jimmy Duggan going to fight?""Fight!--you bet your life he's going to fight, and he's going to win,too.""Umph!""Umph again, Whimple, you and the government will be umphing to thefinish, and then you'll umph some more.""But look here, Tommy, you know the opposition and its press has hadthe government tottering to its fall every election these fifteenyears, and it's as solid as ever.""Well, we'll make a dint in its solidity any way.  You keep your eyeson Jimmy Duggan."And Whimple did; others were a little slower to turn their gaze in thatdirection.  They treated Duggan and the People's Party as a joke untilthe official nomination meeting when the strength and enthusiasm ofJimmy's supporters jolted them.  There was a hurried consultationthereafter in the government's campaign quarters.  Cabinet ministerswere turned loose in the riding; the city papers supporting thegovernment, though loth to do it, began to play up "The Big Wind."Every hall in the riding was hired for every night of the remainingweek of the campaign, and two or three meetings were held every night.The People's Party and Jimmy Duggan could not afford to rent halls;their material platforms were express and coal delivery wagons drawn upon vacant lots: their speakers, outside of Tommy Watson, were men wholaboured in the factories and workshops, or, like William Turnpike's Paand Jimmy Duggan himself; had little businesses of their own.  Jimmycould talk--after a fashion.  "Pa" Turnpike did a little in thespeech-making line.  Tommy Watson did a great deal, and so did TonyGaston, who had distinguished himself by nominating Duggan on the nightthe People's Party was formed.Tony was a treat; William followed him around from meeting to meeting,declaring one of Tony's speeches to be worth more than all the othersput together.  "Gee! you'd orter hear him, Lucien," he said to Simmons'office boy one afternoon.  "He's a Dago--but he's white.  He getsleaning over the side of a wagon and he waves his arms till you'd thinkhe'd shake them off, and all the time he's spitten' out words so blamedfast you'd wonder his tongue don't drop off.  'Ladies and der Gents,'he says, 'dis is de pr'r'oudest minnit of me life.  It's an honor tostand befacin' such a audonce to spek a wor'r'd,' he says, 'for mefrend, James de Duggan.'  Somebody yells, 'Well, yer work f'r him,that's why.'  'Sure, I wor'rks for him,' says Tony, 'and I wor'r'kshar'rd f'r him,' he says, 'and that's more'n you do f'r the man datspayin' you good mon ev'ry week what you don't ear'r'r'n.  Ladies andder Gents,' he says, 'har'rk nottin's to dat loaf-er, but vote f'r thefrends of de honest wor'r'k de mans and stick de Big Wind so up heblows-puff.'"But a new problem faced the People's Party when, for the final fourdays of campaigning, "The Big Wind's" committee announced a band or anorchestra at every meeting for every night."That'll take lots of our people away," said Tommy Watson,thoughtfully, when he read the announcement.  "What can we do, Iwonder, to meet it?"  But William's Pa was solving the difficulty whileTommy was pondering over it.  Flo Dearmore--the theatrical season beingover--was in town, living, as she always did between seasons, with hermother.  She was immensely interested in the contest, the faithfulTommy Watson, whose courting of her was proceeding with some success,keeping her fully informed, and when William's Pa called on her, shelistened to his request with interest, refused to consider it at all,but, woman-like, changed her mind, and appeared that night on one ofthe People's Party platforms--an express wagon loaned by Turnpike.Tommy Watson was in the chair, and he almost fell out of it when he sawFlo approaching the wagon.  Almost before he could move, she was seatedbeside him, many willing hands having assisted her on her way.Tommy's eyes were popping and his mouth was gaping.  He framed his lipsto question her, but the words would not come.  Flo greeted himdemurely, and smiled mischievously over his evident embarrassment."Don't worry, Tommy," she said, "I'm in this fight too.  They're notgoing to beat your man if I can help prevent it.  If they have theirbands--well, I can sing still," with just a touch of pride."Flo--Flo," gasped Tommy, "you're a brick.  There's lots here who knowyou, and some of them know you're going to be Mrs. Tommy Watson prettysoon, and they'll tell the others.  Flo, this is worth hundreds ofvotes to us.  Oh!  but you're a woman in a thousand."  She flushed withpleasure at this.  "You'll have to tell me later all about it," Tommywent on; "who put you up to this, or did you think of it yourself?""It was Pa Turnpike," she said."Good old Turnpike.  Say, but that Pa of William's is certainly smart.You remember William: the lad who sang for you at the Variety."And just here Jimmy Duggan, who had been making a brief address,finished suddenly, as was his wont, with an invitation to all, "whetherthey know me or not, to solemnly weigh the merits of the twocandidates, and to decide in favour of the man whose platformprin-ciples are those for which the common people have long beenfighting, and if you do, you'll vote for me."On the instant that he finished Tommy Watson was up.  "The nextspeaker," said he, "will be a singer.  (Cheers.)  Our respected town'slady, Flo Dearmore--(cheers)--who has won a high place on the stage.She is for Duggan--(loud cheers)--and says it'll break her heart if heain't elected, and that wouldn't do.  (Cheers.)  She's a woman in amillion."Here some one cried out, "Why don't you marry the lady, Tommy?""I'm going to, and pretty soon," answered Tommy, promptly, turningtoward Flo as he spoke.  All blushes, she nodded her headaffirmatively, while the crowd shouted approval.  Then she sang forthem--two songs only--and afterwards went on to another meeting,accompanied by Tommy Watson, Tony Gaston, and William, where she sangagain.  And William's heart was throbbing with happiness, for, from thenight in the Variety, when he had first seen her on the stage, he hadplaced this lovely lady in a niche of his heart next to that occupiedby the mother to whom he was an unsolvable puzzle.  He would havefollowed her to fifty meetings that night had she been going to thatmany, but his happiness was the more nearly perfect because the ladyand Gaston were going to the only other Duggan meeting together, and hewould be able to worship her, and listen in ecstasy to her singing, andafterwards hear one of Tony Gaston's fiery orations."Gee!" said William to himself: "ain't this the great luck?" and then,with an admiring glance at Flo, "and ain't she a pippin?"Of course, Jimmy Duggan won.  Even the present generation of hustlingCanadians know that, though many of them could not tell an inquirer,off-hand, the name of the Canadian Prime Minister who preceded SirWilfrid Laurier.  Of course he won--by a bare 3000 majority--that'sall.  Mid-Toronto shouted itself black in the face that night, and wentabout its own business for the next seven days in a manner that oneeminent alienist would have described--had he been giving expertevidence for the defence at fifty dollars per hour--as "between a stateof hysterical mania and senile decay, but not close enough to the oneto necessitate confinement in an asylum, or to the other as to requirethe attention of a trained nurse."  Jimmy Duggan was the least affectedof any of the People's Party.  He made fifty-five brief speeches ofthanks in various sections of Mid-Toronto, and made his last to TommyWatson, Tony Gaston, and Pa Turnpike, who escorted him to his home."I owe most to you three," he said earnestly, "and you'll have to helpme think up some kind of legislation to press for.  There's one thingwe have to be glad about though," he added."What's that?" asked Tommy."Well--I ain't a government man, so it's no good anybody coming to meto worry me to death trying to get a government job for them."CHAPTER XVIII"What are you going to do about William?"  That was the question FloDearmore asked of Tommy Watson one afternoon when Tommy should havebeen attending strictly to his business as an auctioneer, but wasneglecting it for the business of courtship, which, he declared for theone hundred and ninety-ninth time, had more charms for him than themost exciting sale he had ever conducted."Well, what about him?" was Tommy's answer."Isn't that Scottish though?" said Flo: "question for question.""You know the old proverb," Tommy said, smilingly, "'don't answer tooquickly, or you'll put your foot in it.'""I never heard of it before," she said, "and I don't believe there issuch a proverb.""It's something like that, anyway," retorted Tommy; "but, coming backto the question I asked, what about William?""I asked it first.""You're beginning to get your hooks in for the last word rather early,aren't you?""Tommy Watson! make no mistake about me.  I'm going to have the firstand last word now and--and----""To the end of your married life, I suppose," broke in Tommy with asigh so heavy that it shook him.Flo tapped him on the head with the fingers of one dainty hand."You're almost intelligent at times, Tommy Watson," she said, with mockseriousness."Yes," he retorted, "yes; almost intelligent enough to go on thestage," and then he spent the next ten minutes in explaining that hehad meant to convey no reflections; that his sweetheart was thedearest, most lovable, and most intelligent person in the world; thathe would never have made, and never could make, an actor: that he wasthe biggest bonehead in the boundaries of the City of Toronto, and allhis friends and acquaintances knew it.  She made him withdraw the lastassertion, and beg her pardon in his nicest manner for insultinghimself and his wife to be, and then came back to the subject ofWilliam."There's promise in the boy," she said, "he'll be a great comedian someday, if he gets a fair start.""Yes, and he knows it, too," Tommy commented, "confound the kid.Sometimes he drives me frantic, but all the time I like him.  He hasn'tgot the faintest notion of ever being anything but a comedian.  He'salmost uncanny.  What he doesn't think of hasn't been thought of byanybody yet, I'll bet.  He can't find words, often, to tell what histhoughts are, and then he falls back on the greatest line of slang I'veever heard.  Only yesterday he said to 'Chuck' Epstein, 'Many's thetime when things all go wrong I've felt like going home and crying,honest.  Then, when I'd get home, there's Pa dead tired, but chirpin'like a cricket, and Ma tired too, but hustlin' around gettin' supperfor Pa and the kids and me, and Dolly and Pete and the others allwaitin' to see what line I'm going to take.  So I gets busy and cutsup, and, say, maybe we don't have the merry ha ha times, and my Pa saysto me often, he says, "William, make 'em laugh; a feller what can hidethe sores in his own heart," he says, "while he's makin' somebody elselaugh," he says, "he's a winner more ways than one."  And it's true,Mister Epstein.'""Yes," said Flo, softly, "it's true.""But now, here's the situation," Tommy went on.  "William's Pa is doingpretty well now, and he won't stand for any charity game.  If the boywill go back to school, Pa Turnpike will cheerfully consent, butWilliam won't.  He's very stubborn on that point.  'Not for mine,' hesays.  'If I could stick to history and reading lessons, all right, butthe rest of the truck they try to shovel into a boy's head at schoolkills me dead.  Say, I've come outer the school some days almost scaredto put me feet down for fear they'd slip over the edge of the world,and I never really know whether the sun goes around the world or theworld around the sun, and often I ain't been sure whether the sun mighthit us, or us hit the sun, and everything bust to pieces.'""Well, you'll have to try persuasion on him.""We're trying it," said Tommy, "and I think we're beginning to seedaylight.  It's down to the point now where William comes over andtakes luncheon in my room with Epstein and myself, and he gets an hourof reading and instruction from the old man then, in addition to theone in the morning.  We arranged that with Whimple, and William walkedright into it.  If we could only get him to cut out the slang----""What!""Well, that's just what Epstein said when I suggested it to him.""I should think so, Tommy Watson; that boy is a natural born 'slanger.'"Tommy laughed."You're laughing in the wrong place, Tommy--that boy will go onabsorbing slang to the end of his days, unless you're foolish enough toshame it out of him.  By the time he is ready to go on the stage hewill have a stock-in-trade of slang that will be the making of him, forhe is so apt and ready with it.  But, tell--no, I'll tell Epsteinmyself--to take care that his slang does not mar the rest of hisspeech.  He must not be allowed to get into the way of just mouthingslang and nothing else.  Does he read well?""You should hear him, Flo: it's a treat, and when he gets stuck on abig word he dives into the dictionary head first, or questions Epsteinuntil he can say it properly and understand its meaning.""That is real progress.  He's a delightful mimic, too.""Yes: he takes off Epstein, or Whimple, or myself, to the life.""The latter must be extremely difficult," said Flo, demurely."True--quite true--for there's no doubt I'm a wonderful man, Flo,"answered Tommy, solemnly: "so inscrutable and impassive--is that theway to say it--so adept at hiding my inmost thoughts, so----""But you needn't squeeze my hand so hard, Tommy, while you pronounceyour eulogy; it isn't an auctioneer's gavel.""It's a very pretty hand, though," Tommy said with a smile, "a verypretty hand.""Are you an impartial judge, Tommy?""Well, I can't say I have much experience in regard to the hands of thefair sex, but I'm willing to bet there are none like yours in the wideworld.""And you have travelled so much of it.""Not lately, perhaps, but I once spent four hours in Montreal, 330miles away; think of it! and half a day in Hamilton--that's all offorty miles off--and Toronto never looked so sweet to me as it did whenI got back to it.  Good old Toronto; it's been kind to me.  It hasgiven me the dearest of all women, and a good business, and--and----"he kissed her hand and a few minutes later departed.At a down town corner he ran into William, who was studying with greatinterest the baseball bulletins displayed outside of a newspaperoffice.  William was one of a pretty large crowd that was doing thesame thing.  News bulletins seemingly had little attraction for themajority of them.  As Tommy neared him, William remarked to a man inthe crowd, "Gee! wouldn't that jar you?""I don't see why: that's a very important piece of news.  It isn'tevery day the city council decides to spend so much----""City council my neck," broke in William, rudely, "what's that got todo with the score?""Score! what score?""Oh, gee!  I thought I was talking to a baseball fan.""You thought wrong, young man," retorted the man, sharply.  "I've nopatience with such frivolous things."And then William caught sight of Tommy.  "Say," he called out, "what doyou think of that score?"Tommy, himself an enthusiast, studied it carefully.  "Jersey City two,Toronto one," he said aloud, "and down we go to second place, William.""Yes; and Jersey City putting us there!  Say, that team of ours iscertainly on the pork.""Oh, they're not doing so badly; we're only a few points down.""Only?  What's the use?  Every time they lick the good ones they falldown when they stack up against the tail-enders; it's rotten.""Cheer up, William, cheer up!  The team will soon be home for anotherlong series, and then they'll soar.""Yes," said William, gloomily, "to the bottom.""You seem to be downhearted; what's the matter?""Mister Whimple lost a case to-day.""Well, lots of lawyers do that.  In baseball, or law, or anything else,William, you've got to lose sometimes.  Remember the old saying, 'It'sbetter to have tried to buck the line, and failed, than never to havetried at all.'""But Mister Whimple's just getting a good start, and he can't afford tolose cases.  It gives him a bad steer with people that's looking forlawyers in the winning column!"CHAPTER XIXThe plans that men make in the belief that the knowledge and wisdom ofthe adult mind knows what is best for youth are many and of smallaccount.  For the youthful mind sees easily through the most of them,intuitively perhaps, and not by methods of reasoning, and decides foritself whether it shall accept or reject them.  And office boysconstitute a particularly abnormal department--if such it may betermed--of the youthful mind.  This is merely a roundabout way ofpreparing the readers, if any, of this veracious chronicle with thefact that William had not, as Tommy Watson supposed, "walked into" theplan whereby he was to receive an additional hour of tuition from thatprince of tutors, "Chuck" Epstein.  If this was a history, the truthmight be coloured with the glamour of romance at times.  But, as TommyWatson himself was wont to say, "Facts are real, facts are earnest,facts are very stubborn things, facts are facts where'er you find 'em,facts are what gives truth its wings."  Therefore, it is here set downin black and white that William himself engineered that additionalhour, and the wise men who thought they had initiated it pattedthemselves on the back because it was a success.William, of a truth, was beginning to find himself by finding othersout.  He had discovered, and it was a bitter shock to William, thatLucien Torrance, for whom his feelings were tinctured by good-naturedtolerance, was making good use of his spare time around the office.Lucien had no "vaulting ambition:" he would hardly have understood themeaning of the words.  He wanted to improve his position though, and hepractised consistently on the typewriter, he took lessons in shorthand,and was beginning to master the intricacies of bookkeeping, taking hislessons therein at a night school.  His desk was always neat and clean,and the clerical work that Simmons, the architect, was beginning totrust him with was well done.William's desk always looked to be over-crowded, and was never neat.Periodically, the lad had a cleaning-up day, but he never seemed tomake much headway in getting rid of the assorted mass of newspaper andmagazine clippings that he accumulated with avidity.  It was an amazingcollection, and every bit of reading in it, and every picture, referredto comedians; always comedians.Lucien Torrance tackled him about it one day.  "Why don't you throw allthat truck away?" he said; "it's an awful lot of rubbish.""Truck!  Rubbish!""Yes: what do you want with that?""You wouldn't tumble to it if I told you," William answered, so mildlythat Lucien, who had expected a stinging rebuke, was almost overcomewith surprise.  "It's a secret," William went on, "a dark secret, butone of these days you'll be paying good money to find out about it.""Not me.""Yes, you, Lucien Torrance; you'll be doing it, and paying for yourgirl, or your wife, perhaps, to help you find it out.""I haven't got a girl, and as for a wife, I'm only fifteen----""Don't give your age away," interrupted William.  "I told you youwouldn't understand, and I ain't going to waste any of my breath tryingto make you now.  Some day you will, unless you turn to stone, like thefellow at the show last week.""Oh, you mean 'the petrified man.'""You've got the name down fine, Lucien; I wanted to say it, but,honest, I couldn't.  I thought it was stiffified, or something likethat.  But don't worry about me and this 'truck' and 'rubbish,' Lucien;I'm not daffy yet.  Let's talk about something else.""What?""Love, for instance.""Love: what on earth do you want to talk about love for?  Are you----""Not on your life," interrupted William, hurriedly, "no skirts formine.  Why I wouldn't worry about any woman in the world but Ma or mysisters.  But I'd like to get at the bottom of this love businessanyway.  'Chuck' Epstein says love is the greatest thing in the world,but it makes the most trouble.  Can you beat that?""I don't know anything about it----""No, no; I don't figure that you do, Lucien.  But when 'Chuck' says it,he says it to Tommy Watson, and Tommy heaves a sigh big enough to burstthe store to pieces if the door hadn't been open so's the sigh floatsout into the street and blows an old gent's hat off, and----""I don't believe it.""I know you don't, Lucien: that's another of your troubles.  Some day,maybe, your mind'll take in somer the things you're missin' now, andmaybe it never will.  But, anyway, Tommy says, 'You're right, "Chuck,"'he says, kinder gloomy like.  Now, whatjer think of that, and him goingto be married to Flo Dearmore in August?""Tommy Watson is?""Sure.""I always thought he was an old bachelor.""Well, you think again, Lucien, think again.  Tommy ain't so old; andit seems to me every man's a bach-e-lor until he gets married.  Now,you'd think Tommy'd be fairly bustin' with joy, and maybe he is; Idon't know.  But he goes around singing all them mournful songs, and,say, you'd ought to hear him singing.  Oh, gee!  Honest, Lucien, thefog horn over on the Island's a treat to it.  Your boss was over oncewhen Tommy was whanging away on oner them songs, and he says, 'Heavens,Tommy, when's the funeral?' and Tommy says, 'Guess again, Simmons,' hesays.  'It's for very joy I'm singing.'  So your boss says, 'Well, itain't a fair deal for you to be so all fired joyful as to killeverybody else's joy,' he says; so Tommy shies a book at him, andSimmons ducks, and the book hits a vase and smashes it.  Well, you'dthink Tommy would be mad at himself and at everybody else because ofthat, but he laughs and says to Simmons, 'Better the vase than yourhead, Simmons.  Gee!  I'm so happy I could smash everything in theplace.'  So your boss says, 'Wait till your wife begins to try hercookin' on you.'  Then Tommy gets after him, and Simmons scoots, andTommy begins again on Scotch songs; all the slow, sad ones, and,honest, I had to go out too.""You spend a lot of time there, don't you, William?""Sh--sh--Don't be sleuthing around, Lucien, you might find outsomething, and I'm afraid the blow would kill you.  Anyway, I asked myPa about this love business, and he kinder laughs, and looks at Ma, andshe laughs too, like when she's pleased about something, and theykisses each other right there, and Pa says, 'It'll come to you someday, boy, please God, and when it comes----' and then he kisses Maagain and don't finish what he's started to say, and I don't ask him.I know enough anyway to know when Pa ain't going to be no mark for abuncher questions, but it's got me going.  There's Miss Whimple loved afellow when she's young, and he gets carved up by some black fellows ina desert around Egypt somewhere----""The Soudan.""That's the name; who told you?""My father's brother is a soldier, and he fought the Dervishes.""That's the bunch.  Say, you certainly know something, Lucien,sometimes.  So, Miss Whimple don't get married, and it's the icy mittfor anybody that asked her; and plenty did.""She's a funny old----""You say a word about her, Lucien Torrance, that ain't nice, and I'llknock the head off'n you.  She's--she's--well, there ain't another likeher except Ma.""I wasn't going to say anything----" began Lucien.William cut him short.  "You started wrong then," he said, "that's allthere is to it; and now what about your boss?""Mine?""Yes; he's going crazy about a girl.""He's what?""You heard me; you know you did.  Say, he can't sleep nights thinkingof that girl, by the looks of him, and he don't see her more'n seventimes a week, and she's just as looney about him too; but she ain'tshowing it much.""I don't believe it!""There you are again, and a lot of this thing going on under your verynose.  Say, you're sticking so close to business you can't see a blamething but your work.  Do you ever have a day dream, Lucien?""I'm too busy.""That's it, busy--too busy to have day dreams.  Gee, I don't know whatI'd do if I never had 'em.  Say----"Whimple entered at this moment with Simmons.  The lawyer was urging thearchitect to "buck up."  William smiled.  "The girl loves you," Whimplesaid, in an undertone, but not pitched low enough, for the two boysheard it quite distinctly.  William winked at Lucien, and the latterblushed.  Simmons refused to be comforted, and passed into his ownoffice, melancholy settled heavily on his usually bright face, andLucien followed him."William," said Whimple a few minutes later, "will you please take thisletter to Mrs. Stewart, and wait for an answer?"William's "yes" was prompt.  He liked Mrs. Stewart, a young and prettywidow, to whom of late he had carried a number of notes.  While he wasputting on his cap, Whimple, who was sitting in his own room, began tosing softly.  William did not pay particular attention to the airuntil, as he started toward the outer door of the office, Whimple'svoice rose a little, and then he listened intently.  Whimple could singwell, and he was singing well now, and the song was "Annie Laurie."William paused irresolutely, looked at the letter, counted swiftly onone hand, then opened the door, and ran quickly down the stairs.  Atthe bottom of the stairs he paused again, once more he counted, andthen said to himself, "Friday, and I've taken five letters to her thisweek, and brought five back, and--and--I thought I was smarter'nLucien.  Dang it, all the men are going crazy together."CHAPTER XXThe real awakening of William to the sterling qualities of LucienTorrance came with the Binks' knitting factory fire.  The story wastold in full detail by the newspapers at the time, but the publicmemory is not long, and, because this is a record of facts, it is herere-told, from the view-point of William and Lucien.  The factory, inwhich some sixty girls were employed, was a three-story building,facing the rear of the building in which were located the offices ofWhimple and Simmons.  On one side it ran so close to the latterbuilding that even the boys could, by a little stretching, touch thesill of a window to the right of the window in the room that served asoffice for William and waiting-room for his employer's clients.The fire broke out one hot afternoon in August in the lower floor ofthe factory, and, as the building was "modern and fire-proof," theflames naturally spread at a terrific rate.  Some thirty of the girlsmanaged to escape from the lower floor at once.  The escape of theothers was cut off completely, the one iron ladder, designated as afire escape, and running down to the ground, being, on its lower rungs,"wrapped in flame," as the reporters have it.William and Lucien, who had been making faces at some of the girls atthe time the fire broke out, were shocked into helplessness for amoment.  Lucien recovered first.  "Quick," he said, grasping William bythe arm, "we can help."  He half pulled William into Simmons' room,"Grab the other end," he commanded, curtly, himself seizing one end ofwhat appeared to be a long table top.  In reality it consisted of threestout planks braced together underneath, and resting on scantlingsupports.  Several plans were pinned to the top, and these Lucienyanked off without ceremony.  Between them the boys carried the tabletop to the window, and, though for a few seconds it seemed that theircombined strength was not equal to the demand on it, they succeeded inplacing one end of it on the sill of the open factory window, aroundwhich the imprisoned girls were gathered, some screaming wildly, otherspale-faced, but quiet.  A rough bridge was thus formed between thefactory and Whimple's office.  Lucien crossed it first, with William aclose second.  The boys urged the girls to "get a move on, one at atime," but it was not until William had escorted the heaviest oneacross to Whimple's office that the others, despite the rapid approachof the fire, could be persuaded to venture.  Convinced of the safety ofthe "bridge," they began to make the journey rapidly enough.  Luciencalmly and quietly encouraged them.  William said nothing, but hecarried out with alacrity every suggestion Lucien made.By this time a detachment of the fire brigade was on the scene.  Threeof the firemen, with a hose, rushed up the front stairs of Whimple'soffice and to the window through which the girls were coming."Well, I'll be swizzled," said one of them, excitedly, "who made thebridge?"One of the girls paused a moment before leaving the office.  "Twoboys," she cried, hysterically, "they're in the factory helping theother girls.""Bully for them," shouted one of the firemen.  The next moment hehurried across the "bridge," which bore his weight splendidly, andassisted the boys.  Other firemen, with more hose, arrived, and severalstreams of water were soon playing on the factory walls below the"bridge.""We'll save this building, anyway," said one of the firemen, handling ahose from one of Whimple's windows.  And save it they did.As the last girl crossed the bridge, the fireman who had been assistingLucien and William ordered them to get out quickly.  The big room wasnow full of smoke, the lads and the firemen were almost choked with it,and tongues of flame were beginning to lick one of the wooden partitionwalls.  Just as the man spoke, the partition fell.  A burning scantlingstruck Lucien on the head and sent him to the floor.  In a momentWilliam grabbed the burning timber with his bare hands and tried tolift it, but without the assistance of the fireman, who inserted hishook-axe under it, and added a man's strength to that of the boy's, hewould not have been successful.  Lucien was still conscious when theypicked him up, and, with the assistance of William, made the journeyacross the "bridge" to Whimple's office in safety.  Here kindly handstemporarily bound up his wounds and those of William too, the lattermeanwhile asserting loudly, "Lucien did it; he thought of it; Luciendid it."Finally, Lucien's parched and cracked lips parted in a smile."Couldn't have done it without you, William," he gasped, and then thefloor, so William Adolphus Turnpike afterwards solemnly asserted, roseup and hit him, and he knew nothing more until, in the evening, he wokeup in a private ward in St. Michael's Hospital.  There were only twobeds in that ward.  When William opened his eyes, a kindly facednursing sister was bending over him."Where's Lucien?" he demanded.The sister smiled.  "In the bed near you," she said, gently; "hismother and father have just left him; he's----"William sat straight up in the bed.  "Say," he said, brokenly, "heain't going to die, is he?""No," she answered, "he's doing splendidly, and he's fast asleep."William laughed happily.  "Oh, but he's a pippin, a real pippin; and methinking he was a dub.  If he wakes up, and I'm asleep, nurse, you cantell him from me that I'm a mutt.  He's the real thing, is Lucien."Then he looked down at his hands, swathed in bandages, and grinned."Kinder early for winter mitts," he said.  "Gee, but my hands sting!Has my Ma and Pa been here?""They're here now, waiting to see you.  They've been here for twohours, William.""Two hours! and me lying on the downy while they're worryin'.Me--uh!--I ain't worth it."The sister opened the door, and Mr. and Mrs. Turnpike, with anxiousfaces and eyes somewhat dimmed, were soon bending over their boy,kissing him, and whispering words of love and praise and sympathy.After their farewells, William turned to the sister with shining eyes."Nobody ever had a Ma and Pa like mine," he said, "and my hands aresore, but I'm tired--tired--" he closed his eyes--"and I'm a mutt.Lucien's got it on me all over when it comes to a show down."  AndWilliam slept.There followed a strange experience for the two boys.  Reportersinterviewed them, and the interviews mostly read as though the boyswere past masters in the use of correct English.  One enterprisingreporter wrote up William's story just as the lad gave it.  Themajority of readers appreciated that interview because the lad'slanguage appealed to them, but by the time the editor of the newspaperin which it appeared had read the third letter from "pro bono publico,"protesting against the putting of so much slang into the mouth of amere child, he regretted that he had not made the reporter re-write it.Being human, he, of course, lectured the reporter with asperity, andthe reporter, being a man of spirit, instead of taking the lecture toheart, resigned, entered the field of literature, and, in acomparatively short time, became a noted writer of short stories.  Heblessed William at the time and ever afterwards for opening his eyes tothe possibilities of the boy in fiction--and fact.Two days in the hospital was enough for William.  He gave his ultimatumto Ma and Pa after the mayor had called upon Lucien and himself toexpress admiration "on behalf of the citizens of Toronto," and informedthem that they were to be presented with gold watches "as a permanenttoken of appreciation of their bravery."William insisted on going home that day.  "Another day here," he said,"with bunches of people buttin' in and slobberin' over me, and I'm adead one.  Besides! it was all Lucien; I'm no bloomin' hero."Lucien was sick of it too, but, because his injuries were the moreserious, he had perforce to stay a little longer in the hospital.The presentation of the watches was made in the mayor's office one weekafter the fire.  It was a painful ceremony, so far as the boys wereconcerned, and they were immensely relieved when the last word had beensaid, and their admiring parents were allowed to proudly escort them totheir respective homes.CHAPTER XXIIt required the combined efforts of Whimple, Epstein, and Watson topersuade William to take a two weeks' holiday before returning to work.He didn't want to go to the country: knew he would die after two daysthere: was positive he was as strong and as able to work as he ever hadbeen: and, in short, he wouldn't go.  Watson wormed the truth out ofhim after an hour's private talk.  "I'm just crazy about keeping up mylessons with Mister Epstein," said William, finally; "I feel that Ican't afford to miss one; I wanter be something, Tommy, and I'm findingout every day how much of a dub I am."Tommy suppressed a strong desire to whoop; the spirit of the lad was somanifest; his earnestness so marked.  But, as calmly as possible, hesaid, "Don't worry on that score, William, a rest will do you good.Besides, if you go where Mr. Whimple wants you to, you'll not miss agreat deal.  I know the boys in that family.  They're clean; they havea good library, and--oh well, you go!  Remember the proverb: 'It'sbetter to go slow sometimes, than to hustle all the time.'"William was back at work two weeks before Lucien, who, on leaving thehospital, had also gone to the country.  The boys greeted each othercordially the day Lucien returned, and spent some time, on the firstopportunity afforded, in recounting their experiences.  Lucien told hisin a plain, matter-of-fact way, and declared he was immensely relievedto be back again."Well," said William, when it came to his turn, "I'm glad to be backtoo.  Not that I didn't like it.  Say, after the first day, I enjoyedev'ry minute.  I went to the Millers' farm at Varency, in HaldmandCounty, and maybe they ain't THE PEOPLE.  B'lieve me--well--say,honest, Lucien, all the fool things I uster think about farmers,callin' 'em 'Rubes' and 'Hayseeds,' and such like, and about their workand houses and everything, makes me feel like kicking myself from hereto home, and that's quite a walk.  If I was oner them kind that wakesup in the night and thinks about the past, I'd blush in the dark forthe fool I was.  But when I falls asleep it's me's a log till somebodyyells in my ear that breakfast's ready.  Anyway, what I used to thinkabout farmers is buried deep, with a lot more foolish truck I've beengetting rid of this last few weeks."Say, there's three fellows there, Emerson, Laird, and George, andevery one of 'em's over six feet, and wide too, and smart, uh!  Laird,he's a schoolmaster already, and you'd orter hear him telling storiesabout them old Romans and Greeks, and explainin' things that a dub likeme's sure to get stuck on.  The other two they say one schoolmaster toa family's enough, and it's them sticking to the farm, and they ain'tno slouches on farming neither.  They've read an awful lot, andattended lectures, and got things down fine.  They doctor the horsesand cattle when they're sick, and, unless they break a leg or somethinglike that, they doctor themselves too.  Emerson, he's a swell re-citer.Honest, Lucien, he'd make you laugh, or cry, or anything, with thepieces he knows by heart, let alone what he can do with pieces he ain'tnever seen before when he reads 'em out for the first time.  AndGeorge, he can clog-dance, and play the banjo like a pro-fessional.And the girls are smart too; there's four of 'em.  Gee!  I thought I'dhave to go home long before two weeks was up, they were so kind to me.The boys and their Dad--they always called him that--uster work likeblazes from daylight, and often before, right on until evenings, andthen we'd sit around on the porch after supper, and--and----" he brokeoff abruptly."Yes?"  said Lucien, quietly, after a moment's silence."Say, Lucien, did you ever get a hunch all of a sudden, just whenyou're enjoyin' yourself, that it'll never be the same again?"Lucien answered with a prim, "Oh, yes--sometimes."William went on, "Don't it grip your heart--don't it?  We'd be sittingthere--the house is built on pretty high ground, and on one sidethere's quite a valley, with a little stream running through it; theycall it a river, but it ain't; and lots of big trees, and some willows.And our old friend, the moon, would be glummerin' around, and makingpaths on the water, and you'd hear the frogs, and crickets, andsometimes the creaking that the wagons would make as they passed.That's all; there wouldn't be another sound for a while, and thenEmerson'd begin to recite, or George would play the banjo, or Lairdwould tell us stories about them old fighters long ago.  And all of 'emknow the names of the stars--whatjer think of that?--and they'd talkabout them like they were old friends, especially their Dad, for hecame from Scotland and was a sailor.  Oh! it was great--great.  Thensome one would begin to sing, and everybody would join in the chorus.First, they'd sing somer the new songs; then the comic ones; then itwould be 'Annie Laurie,' 'Will ye no come back again,' 'The Low-backedCar,' 'Willie, we have missed you,' 'Nellie Grey,' 'My Old KentuckyHome'--all the old-timers.  I'd join in too, and one night when we weresinging 'Will ye no come back again,' that think tank of mine got outergear someway, and starts a hammerin' on one thought: 'It'll never bethe same again--never--never--never,' and it made me feel bad, I tellyou, but I went on singing.  I had that kinder feeling three or fourtimes after.  It sounds crazy, don't it, Lucien? but, oh, it's true,it's true!  But, don't you forget it, I had a bully time.  I don't knowwhen I really liked it most; in the early morning, when everything'sbright and fresh, or at night, when it's still, like I'm tellin' you.There's one thing I noticed about the nights, too, that got me going.""What's that?""The stars.  Say, Lucien, they seem to be so much closer than they doin the city; and more of 'em: that's because there ain't so manybuildings, and you can see more sky.  Sally used to say----""Sally!""Yes, Sally! she's the youngest, and at that she's a little older'n Iam.  And there ain't no mother in that house, because their mother diedjust when Sally was a kiddie, and they're all mothers and fathers toher.""William--is it----?""Now, hold on, Lucien; hold on.  Don't bite on anything until you'resure you can swallow it.  Say, she's a wonder, Sally is!  There's beensomething wrong with her spine for about four years, and she can'twalk, 'cept once in a while she kinder hobbles slow around the table.They have a big wheel chair for Sally, and always when it's fine theywheel her out on to the verandah, and there she sits for hours an'hours.  You'd think she's have a grouch being the way she is, but,honest, Lucien, she's enough to make all the grouchers get a hunch tothrow themselves off the earth, she's that chirpy.  Laugh! she's got alaugh 'ud chase the blues outer anybody; but she's mighty sad too,sometimes, when she thinks no one ain't watchin' her.  Sally's awonder, Lucien--and she's got big brown eyes, and brown hair fallin'all around her face, and the sweetest mouth----"Lucien had occasional flashes of originality, and struck in with one."Sweetest--the sweetest----""Yes," said William, firmly, though he blushed slightly, "sweet.  Andif you're trying to be wise about me getting tangled up with the fairsex the way you think, cut it out, cut it out.  You're on the wrongtrack, and the danger signal's set against you.  But she's certainly awonder.  Sometimes I'd be two or three hours in the field with theboys, and maybe it ain't enough to keep a fellow's think tank humming,to try to learn a quarter of what they know about the soil, and what todo with it, and about the insects, and roots, and everything.  Then ifI'd get tired I'd go and sit on the porch by Sally, and we'd just talk,or perhaps we'd both have a book, and just sit there readin', and I'dget tired readin', and begin to think about things, and one day, whenI'm doing that I turns sudden, and Sally's looking at me, and she says,'Yes, it is a big world, Willie'--they all called me that--she says,'and we're none of us nearly so im-port-ant as we like to think weare.'  Gee!  I almost swallowed me neck, for I was just thinking that;and she read my thoughts often like that, as easy as----  Oh, well; Itold her all about my plans, and what I mean to be, and--and--I've gotto get busy and write to her now.  I promised to."Lucien smiled slightly."Rub off the smile, you hero," said William, pleasantly, himselfsmiling too; "there's none of that love business going into my letters."CHAPTER XXIISally read that letter, sitting in the porch in her wheeled chair;first to herself, and later aloud to all the members of the family.  Itwas scarred by blots and erasures; in some places William had obviously"stuck" on words, and, after writing them as he thought they should bespelled, had consulted the dictionary to make sure, and had re-writtenthem.This is what Sally read:--"DEAR SALLY,--The Toronto baseball team is on the top of the heapagain, and all the rest of the bunch is laying around like old tin canswaiting for the garbage man to collect them.  Looks like the pennantfor us.  I'm half crazy about the team, so's Tommy Watson, and theother half of him's bughouse about Flo Dearmore, so he's a rare subject."Lucien's all right now.  He's surprising me all the time.  A husky kidcame into the office to-day with a message and got kind of sassy when Itold him the boss was out on business, so I gave him a swat in the eye,and he was just about wiping the floor with me when Lucien tackled him,and in about five minutes that kid was a sight to see.  He criedfierce, but Lucien wouldn't quit till he said he'd behave himself thenext time.  So I says to Lucien, 'Well, if you ain't the artist withyour fists; where in Sam Hill did you pick that up?' and he says his Paused to be a pretty good boxer and gave him lessons.  And me thinkingyet in spite of the fire that he was a kind of sissy boy.  So I beganto believe what Tommy Watson says, that you can't tell what's in afellow until he has a chance to show it, and lots of fellows ain'tgoing around hunting up chances, they just wait till one comes.Anyway, Lucien's a pippin."My Pa got another man to work for him, and he's bought a team ofmules.  Mules are the dickens to work steady all the time.  Pa says hedon't know yet which has the most sense, the mules or the new man, butthe man's good and honest, and the more work he gets, the more hesmiles, and smiles is about all the language he has.  I never saw a manwhat could say so much with a smile.  Honest, the horses and mules getfrisky the minute he gets into the stable, like they were saying, 'Herehe is, cheer up.'  When he gets them, Pa tells the bunch at home themules ain't brought up in no riding school, but Pete's not hearing verywell or something, and the first chance he gets tries to prove Pa'swrong.  So Pete's going around now with six stitches on the front ofhis brain works, and he's that wise about mules a mule doctor couldn'tbeat him."I told Ma and Pa a lot about you, and Pa says he'd like to know you.He's great on people what has a lot to put up with, and don't shoutabout it.  And Ma she looks at Dolly, and says, 'God bless her,'meaning you."Jimmy Duggan, you remember I told you all about him, he wants to bringin some bills when the Provincial House meets, and he says to ask yourfather and the boys to think something up, because he says the citypeople have so many crazy schemes he's afraid to try anything for them.So ask them, please."My feet are tired chasing letters to you know who for Mister Whimple.She's a fine lady though, and I hope the boss will marry her.  When Itook a note up yesterday, she was talking to me about my visit, so Itold her a lot of things I thought she's like and about your brotherGeorge going courting, and she says, 'It's a terrible thing this love,William,' and I asked her does she suffer much from it.  So she blushesawful red, and looked prettier than ever, and says kind of like shedidn't remember I was around, 'Most women do--most women do, and Inever really knew until now what love was.'  Now what do you think ofthat, and her married once before!  Mister Simmons, he's Lucien's boss,he says her husband was an awful booze fighter right till he died, andmy Pa says there ain't any man yet that's ever been able to win a fightagainst booze so long as he's willing to let booze get into his inwards."I guess this letter will make you awful tired, specially if it's a hotday, but there's seems to be so much I'd like to tell you.  Youremember the old man I told you about that I collect rent from, thefellow that has rheumatics.  He's getting quite chummy with me now.  Iwas there the other day, and he hardly swore at all.  He says he'ssorry he's wasted so many good cuss words on me when he's got so manyrelatives waiting for him to die so's they can get his money.  Honest,the way he curses about those people is awful.  I told Tommy Watsonabout him one day, and Tommy says the Good Book is dead against wastinganything.  A man like that, he says, could make a great hit by savingall his curses for one year, and then letting them loose on one of thepeople he don't love.  Whoever got them would never forget, and they'dthink more of Mister Jonas than they do with him throwing curses aroundas though they were cheaper than newspapers."Tommy's got a great set of hired help in his store.  One of them'sfrom Aberdeen, and the other from London, England, and you ought tohear them.  Say, they're fighting all the time about the battle ofBannock-Burn, a million years ago or so.  I butted in one day, andsays, 'Well, ain't that battle over long ago?' and I got what wascoming to me all right, just like butters-in usually does.  They got mein a corner and talked at me for half an hour straight.  When one wouldstop to draw his breath, the other would go on talking.  I began tofeel sick--real sick--no joking, and all of a sudden I burst outlaughing.  I don't know what for, I didn't want to laugh, I felt morelike crying, but, by ginger, I couldn't stop.  I laughed, and laughed,and then some more, and the tears were running down my cheeks all thetime, and I was rolling around like I had wheels for feet.  So thosetwo ninnies began to look solemn, and the Englishman shook me a bit,but I couldn't stop.  Then he began to snicker like a chump, and firstthing he knew he was hanging over one of Tommy's bargain bedsteads justlaughing, laughing, laughing, though it was more like crying too.  TheScotchman started next, and every time he laughed he rolled intosomething until he fell on the floor and just lay there laughing."I suppose we'd be laughing yet or else dead of it, only Tommy came in.He took one look around and his face got awful white.  He asked mesomething, but I could only sputter, then he tried the Scotchman, buthe only rolled some more--gee! it makes me giggle to think of it.  SoTommy rushed to the 'phone and called up a doctor, and then he ran outof the store and got a cop, and when he gets him in he says to the cop,'They're dying,' and the cop says, 'Like blazes they're dying,' hesays.  So that got me going worse than ever, and the cop was beginningto snicker too.  So he pulls out his baton and he yells out, 'I'llknock the block off the first yap that lets out another laugh,' and hegives the Englishman a poke in the slats to show he meant it.  And youbet we quit on the spot.  Me, I made a grand sneak the minute I found Icould stand straight, and just as I'm getting out, in rushes a doctor.Tommy told me after he had to give the doctor four dollars, but themoney was nothing to the way he sweated trying to explain."The next time I write I hope it'll be better written.  I've found aplace where I can take night lessons three times a week in history andreading and writing, and you bet I'm taking them."With best wishes to everybody and hoping George is getting along allright with his courting."W. A. T."P.S.--Lucien is showing me how to box every chance we get."William deliberately omitted from his letter a conversation with MissWhimple regarding Sally.  He had made a special journey to see the ladybecause he remembered hearing her say something about wonderful curesat a certain hospital to the work of which she had given time andmoney.  She heard him through, touched by the depth of his feeling forthe sufferer, and promised to make inquiries of the surgical staff asto what could be done."Don't be too hopeful, William," she said, kindly, "they cannot reallytell until they see the patient.  But they've done almost everythingexcept furnish new spines; and goodness knows there are many people whoought to have them if they could be made.  There are too many jellyfishmen and women in the world to-day, William."CHAPTER XXIIIReformations are slow--except when they're sudden.  Somereformations--of individuals as well as nations--have followed uponyears of effort, toil, and suffering: others have been materiallyaccelerated by the use of the axe.  William's acquaintance with the axewas limited to its use as an instrument for occasional spells offirewood-chopping: but at heart he was a reformer, and, unlike mostreformers--judging them, of course, by the doubtful value ofhistories--he started upon himself.  Tenacity was William's greatestasset; when he adopted a line of action he "stayed with it," to use hisown expressive phraseology.  Having found the place spoken of in theletter to Sally, where he could take night lessons in history, reading,and writing, William became an attentive and consistent attendant.Tommy Watson and Whimple were fearful lest he should undertake toomuch, finally tire of everything, and lapse into a drifter.  Epsteinridiculed their fears and scorned their arguments.  "Leave the boyalone," he said, "he knows what he wants, and he'll get it."There were glorious nights when William longed for a trip on the Bay tothe Island, or an hour's loafing in the parks, but when the longingtook possession of him on lesson nights he fought it down withfirmness, and he usually won.  He confided in Epstein occasionally, andthe wise old comedian let him talk as long as he wished about it,offering no suggestions or advice.  He never went beyond, "Well done,boy," or "Stick to it," but to himself he often said, "He'll do; he'lldo."William neglected his lessons occasionally, as, for instance, once, inthe first week of September, but it was in a good cause.  He thusexplained it to Lucien.  "You shoulder seen the Turnpike bunch at theexhibition yesterday.""So that's where you were.  Mr. Whimple said he understood you wereengaged on important private business matters.""Well, he ain't far wrong the way I look at it.""And were you----?""Yes," broke in William, "I was around when the lion broke outer thewild beast show--I'm coming to that soon.  Pa took the whole bunch ofus: he's been taking the whole family since I can remember, and wealways have a good time."Well, of course it takes Ma about two hours to get the bunchready--say, ain't kids the worst!  I suppose she must have washed offJoey's and Bessie's face four times before we got started.  After thesecond or third time, Pa takes 'em upstairs and makes 'em lie on thebed until the army is ready to advance.  'I've heard about machines forwashin' dishes,' he says, 'but it takes a pair of hands and a lot ofsoap for washin' kiddies' faces, and hands is liable to get tired, sothere you stays until Ma's had a chance to get cleaned up,' and theystayed."Well, we gets to the grounds about eleven o'clock, and all us kids hada lunch in a box, or a bag, or something, and Ma and Pa had two bigbaskets fuller grub besides.  You'd thought there was enough to last aweek.  As soon as we gets inside, Pete says he's hungry, he's afraid hecan't walk none unless he has something to eat right away.  Pete alwayslays for the grub, you bet.  So Pa he lets on he's consideringsomething, but we all know what it is, because he's played it on usbefore, and he winds up by taking us down to a swell lunch place nearthe lake.  Honest, it's as clean nearly as our house, and there'smighty few houses that's cleaner.  So when Bill Thomson--the man whatruns it--sees us coming, he looks mighty solemn, and we all knew whathe's going to say, and he says it.  'Ah,' he says, 'there's theTurnpikes what's going to drink up me last drop of tea and all megingerbeer.  Well'--and then he heaves a great sigh--'let 'em come--let'em all come: it'll ruin me, I know, but somebody always has-ter gounder.'"And Pa says to him to 'cheer up, and how's business?'"So Bill says it's rotten! the worst in years.  So far as he can see heain't even going to pay expenses, and he wishes he'd let the thingalone.  And Pa don't say anything then, but when we've eaten till wecan't eat any more, specially Pete, Pa says to Ma, 'Bill Thomson's beenrunnin' that lunch counter for twenty years, to my knowledge, and he'snever made anything on it, to hear him talk.  But I notice he's gotthree nice houses all his own, and a fine trotting horse, and him anexpress man, too, and I'll bet he ain't got all the money for themhouses outer the express business,' he says."'It's a good business, though,' says Ma."And Pa says, 'You bet it is, Ma, it's been good to us anyway.'"Say, maybe my Pa don't know where to take folks at the exhibition.There's mighty little we didn't see, I'm tellin' you; and chirpin' allthe while Pa was too.  He's better than a minstrel show to go anywherewith, my Pa is; he'd make even you laugh, Lucien.  Well, anyway, alongabout four o'clock Pa thinks we'd better see oner two of the shows inthe midway, so's we can get another meal in good time to see the nightdoings in fronter the grand stand.  So, us to the midway, and we ain'tmore than half in when we runs across the wild beast show.  There's acage on the platform in front of the show, with a pretty fierce lookin'lion in it, and the spieler he's telling the folks how this lion haseaten four or five people, and he ain't never been sub-dued.  'But,' hesays, 'Seenor'r Dan-rell-o will go into his cage at every performance,'he says, 'at the peril of his life.'"So, a young fellow what's listenin', he says kinder flip, 'Is theperil much?'"So the showman says he ain't answerin' no fool questions, but ifanybody what looks like they had brains is asking in-tell-i-gentquestions, he's ready to answer 'em."So the young fellow--he's a husky lookin' chap--he says the show's afake, and the man on the platform gives him a wipe over the head with awhip he had.  Then you'd oughter have seen things happen.  That youngfellow's pal grabs the showman by the legs and pulls him down to theground and proceeds to hammer him some.  The crowd's kinder excited andshovin' around and saying things to each other without knowing whatthey're doing, when the young fellow what really starts the row letsout a yell you could hear a mile away, and the crowd hushes up kindersudden; I guess everybody got cold chills down their backs all at once.While they're wondering what's coming next, the fellow puts out hishand and grabs the bars in front of the lion's cage, pulls two or threeof them out, and gives that lion the awfullest punch right on thestomach; honest, Lucien, you could hear it like somebody poundingbeefsteak to make it tender.  Well, everybody comes to their senses, orelse loses 'em again, whichever you like, all of a sudden, and thewomen that don't faint gets screechin', and the men are hollerin' forthe police, and all except them as are laying in faints begins to run.We were pretty well up to the front, and when Pa sees the young fellowpull out the bars he turns kinder white.  Then he grabs Dolly and Joey,and says to the rest of us, 'Vamoose ahead quick,' he says, 'though Idon't think there's much danger,' and Ma don't say much, but she ain'ttrying to get far ahead of Pa and we keep turnin' around.  At last Pasays, 'No more runnin',' he says, and he puts Dolly and Joey down,takes their hands, and begins to walk back towards the show just as alot of cops came running up, and so we all go back, and there's thatyoung fellow has the lion by the tail and he's whipping it to beat theband, and making it walk slow up the steps.  So, by and by, when thingsget calmed down again, Pa finds out that them cage bars is wooden ones,and the lion's about forty years old, and honest, Lucien, all its teethare false, and so's most of its claws, and just about all it can do isto roar and roll around enough to make it look fierce with red lightsand all that around it when Seenor Dan-rell-o goes into the cage.Don't you believe the yarns the newspapers had about that fellow takinghis life in his hands and all that.  If the police hadn't stopped himhe'd likely have taken the lion home and kept it for his kiddies toplay with, if he's married."Well, Pa says they're ain't much sense paying to see the wild beastshow after that, 'cause the best of it is on the outside.  The nextthing we run across was a show of trained horses.  They had a trickmule outside to attract the crowds, and the spieler says the man,woman, or child what can stay on the mule's back one minute gets adollar and a free ticket to the show.  So we watched a few minutes andsaw quite a few fellows try, and the mule threw every one before theminute was up.  Pa he was kinder fidgetin' and snorting like he thoughtthe triers was a poor bunch, and Ma she says kinder scared like, 'Let'sgo, Pa;' but Pa he steps forward, and he says low to the man will helet our bunch in if he stays on the mule's back a minute.  The man helets out a blast of a laugh, and he says, 'Ladies and gents,' he says,'here's a man wants to take a children's home into the show free if hecan stay on the mule a minute,' he says.  'Oh, gather round and see thefun--oh, gather round.'  Pete, he's for rushing at the man, but I holdshim back, for I see Pa's eyes, and I know that mule's going to bepretty miserable in a few seconds, and the man's going to be worse ifhe gets off any more of his chin about the family.  Of course the mulestands as meek as a sheep while Pa gets on--them trick mules is trainedto do that--and the crowd's waitin' for him to throw Pa up in the air,or roll him off, but the second Pa's on that mule's back his hands hasa grip on his neck near the jaw, and, b'lieve me, Lucien, that mulebegan to turn white in the face.  It seemed no time before the beastwas kinder staggerin' around like a drunk man, and the spielerhollerin' for Pa to let go.  'You win,' he says, 'you win--get off--youcan have everything you want.  Dang it, man, you're killing that mule.'"So Pa's pretty busy keeping his grip, but he says, 'I'm trying a newhold,' he says, 'and I'll try it on you next, unless you apol-o-gises.'"So the man begs Pa's pardon, and ours, and Pa got off, and we all wentinto the show.  It wasn't so bad at that either: any old day any wiseguinea thinks he can put one over my Pa's he's stacking up some troublefor himself."Well, we had another meal then, and we ate so much that even Pete wasnearly satisfied.  He got through the rest of the night on three bagsof peanuts, some pop-corn, and some grapes; but that's easy for Pete,he can eat until he begins to shed buttons off his clothes so fastyou'd think it was raining.  Then he'll go to school, or out to play,for an hour or so, and back he comes ready for more."We saw the grand stand show and the fireworks.  Well, it's a prettygood grand stand show this year; but you've seen it, so what's the usespielin' about it?  I'm glad I got off to go with the bunch, for Icert'nly had one swell time."CHAPTER XXIVThe day before the marriage of Flo Dearmore and Tommy Watson, thelatter's assistants in his auctioneering rooms signed a formal andformidable looking agreement, framed by Whimple, and copied induplicate by one William Adolphus Turnpike.  It was William's firstpiece of typewriting for his boss, and he was mightily proud of it, forit was neatly done, so neatly done in fact that it did not need asingle correction.  And William's pride was the greater because he wasasked to accompany Whimple to the store, there to witness the signingof the agreement.  The ceremony was a solemn one--too solemn almost forWilliam--whose efforts to maintain a dignified bearing were almost toomuch for Tommy.  Whimple had no difficulty in maintaining the pose of alawyer engaged in a serious case, while the assistants were toofrightened to be anything else but soberly sheepish.  The main clauseof the agreement was read over twice, the assistants affirming in timidtones that they knew what it meant, and believed they had sense enoughto live up to it.  And it ran something like this:--"And we the parties hereinbefore and hereinafter referred to asassistants to Thomas Watson, auctioneer of the said city of Toronto,County of York, do hereby solemnly agree and bind ourselves on ourhonour to respect such agreement; that we will not during the absenceof the said Thomas Watson from his lawful place of business during theperiod of four weeks dating from the date of this agreement, to whichin the presence of witnesses we have signed our names, discuss, argue,talk of, whisper, or shout in the presence of each other, or write orread in the presence of each other, anything relating in any manner tothe Battle of Bannockburn or any other battle fought in or out ofScotland or England or elsewhere between armies or forces orindividuals of either of the countries named.  We also agree that wewill not in the presence of each other, by actions or other show thatmight be so construed, attempt to convey each to the other any thoughtswe may have as to such battle, or battles, or conflicts.  And wefurther declare that we know and understand and comprehend the meaningof the foregoing in all respects, that we are over twenty-one years ofage respectively, and are not subject to the control or permission ofparents or guardians in entering into the agreement as set forth in theforegoing, and in the succeeding clauses of this agreement."They signed both copies solemnly, William signed them too, as awitness, and so did Whimple.  One copy was nailed to the wall at theback of the store, the other was given to Whimple, who was also givenpower of attorney by the auctioneer during the absence of Tommy on hishoneymoon.The first wedding that William Adolphus Turnpike ever attended as aguest was that of Tommy Watson and Flo Dearmore.  The formal invitationwas a startling surprise to the lad.  It arrived at his home onemorning just as he was about to depart for the office.  He read itthrough three times, and then handed it over to his mother.  "Ma," hecried, "look at that!"  She read it through, and a blush of pleasuretinged her cheeks as she did so.  "A church wedding, Willie, and youinvited; and then there's a--a--a de-jun-er.  I guess that means aspread at the house of the bride's mother.""But me!  Ma: why, I'd feel like a fish outer water among the bunchthat'll be there, unless," he added thoughtfully, "'Chuck' Epstein goestoo, and I can hang onto him."The time between the reception of the invitation and the wedding was atrying one for William.  He worried about what he should wear--and hischoice was rather limited--but he worried more about what he shouldgive, "For," said his mother, "you'll have to give the bride something:everybody does that when they're invited to a wedding."  In the crisisof his dilemma over this proposition William consulted "Chuck" Epstein,and the result of their deliberations was the sending to theprospective bride of a parrot "that could talk to beat the band," asWilliam said.  Epstein never told him that he had himself paid theoriginal owner of the parrot a larger amount than William could spare,and had arranged with him to accept the sum that the boy offered.  Andof all the gifts that Flo Dearmore received from others but the man ofher choice, that parrot pleased her most, "For," said she, "he is theslangiest bird imaginable, and sometimes he uses swear words--just likemy Tommy."The wedding, which took place at "high noon" in an Anglican church, wasa wonderful experience for William.  With "Chuck" Epstein, he had agood seat near the altar, and many were the smiles and knowing nodsexchanged between other invited guests at the evident eagerness of thelad to take in all the proceedings.  And yet no other person, perhaps,in the assembly--and it was a large one--felt more than William thereal solemnity of the ceremony.  He was not very clear as to his exactfeelings, but the dignity of the rector, the simple beauty of themarriage ritual, the singing of the choir, the love light in the eyesof the bride and of Tommy, combined to impress him profoundly.  Hesmiled once, in fact he scarcely suppressed a snicker, but a warningtouch of Epstein's hand aided him to control himself.The "dejeuner" almost put him "on the blink," he declared afterwards.He was conscious only of two things: first, that the bride, amid allthe sweet confusion and merriment incidental to the occasion, foundtime to introduce him to several ladies as "the dearest and cleverestboy I know, next to Tommy," and that when the toasts were proposed hehad to make a speech.  Epstein assisted him to stand, for the lad wasoverwhelmed with embarrassment that amounted to fear.  He never knewjust what he said at first, but when he recovered sufficiently torealise that the faces turned toward him were kindly, and the smileswere encouraging, his self-possession returned.  Observant always, andquick to see the right thing to do, William hoped that "Mister Watsonand his wife would live happy ever after, and," he concluded, with asmile that was full of confidence, "I nearly snickered once when themarriage was on.  That was when the minister says something about, 'Doyou, Thomas Watson, take this woman for your wife?' or words somethinglike that, and I says to myself, 'Does he!  Gee!  And him looneyabout----'"  The rest was lost in a breeze of laughter and joyousacclamations.Afterwards there was more hustle and bustle, and finally the bride andgroom started for the railway station, with all the accompanimentsconsidered so necessary to start newly wedded couples on such journeys.Others may have noticed, William certainly did, that though she smiled,there were tears in Mrs. Dearmore's eyes as she stood at the doorstepand waved her hands in farewell.  And, as he left for the office,William was thinking of that.  "It means a lot for her," he said tohimself--"a lot.  She--why--Flo will be--" he paused--"of course, ofcourse, it's always the way.  It'll never be the same again for Mrs.Dearmore, or Flo, or Tommy.  This is a rummy world."Later in the day he dropped into Tommy Watson's store and found theassistants engaged in the hottest kind of argument.  They took nonotice of him at all; indeed, they did not know he was there.  Helistened for a few minutes, wrathful and unhappy, because he felt thatthis was the time above all others when Tommy's business should beattended to with diligence and enthusiasm, and then, still unnoticed,he stole out of the store and ran back to the office.  Whimple was notin, and William, hastily glancing over his employer's daily reminder,made a bee line for the county court.  Here he found Whimple, havingjust successfully emerged from a case in which he had defended a manaccused of theft, chatting with the county crown attorney."Excuse me, Mister Whimple," said William, abruptly, "but them guys areat it again.""Meaning----?" began Whimple."In Tommy Watson's store," William went on hurriedly, "and, honest,it's fierce.  I was in and outer the store, and neither of 'em evenlooked at me."Whimple bade adieu to the crown attorney, and started away with William."What are they fighting about now, William?" said Whimple, disgustedly,as he hurried along the street with William by his side."Home r'rule fer I'r'r'reland or 'ome rule for Hireland!  I don't knowjust which," answered William with a smile.CHAPTER XXVSome chronicles are so burdened with matters that are irrelevant as tocause to those who have an eye for the main story and nothing else muchtrouble and more annoyance.  But in this, the true chronicle of eventsin one period of the life of William Adolphus Turnpike, only that whichis of importance has been dealt with.  This is almost a superfluousexplanation, for the reader who has managed to keep awake thus far haslong ago become seized of the fact.  There lapses between what has gonebefore and what is here written a period of nearly five years.  Happyyears they had been to William and the Turnpike "bunch."  The elderTurnpike's business prospered exceedingly, and William was welladvanced towards his cherished goal.  Whimple and Tommy had long ceasedto worry over him, for the lad was developing into a sturdy and healthyyouth, taller than the average, still on the slim side, but strong andsinewy.  There was little grace about his movements, though he haddeveloped in courtesy and consideration to a surprising degree.  Hesometimes worried over his lack of graceful movements.  "I've stood infront of the glass many a time," he said to Epstein, "and practisedtrying to be graceful, but it's no go.  I'm as awkward as a duck;what'll I do?""Nothing," said Epstein, gravely, "nothing, my boy.  It will be bestfor you if you are always naturally as awkward as you are to-day.  Manycomedians have tried for years to acquire what you have as a gift ofnature.  It's a great asset."  And William took the old man's word forit.  "You know best," he said emphatically, "and whatever you say goes."Epstein smiled happily.  The old comedian did not seem to have agedvery much in the five years.  He declared he felt younger, in fact.Between him and William there had grown a friendship strong andcomplete.  The lad trusted implicitly in the man: his gratitude to himwas unbounded, he evinced it by his attention to the lessons, stillcontinued, by every little thing he could do to show that the tuition,so unselfishly given, was bearing good fruit.  It was hard drillingoften: there were days and weeks when the heart of William was tornwith doubts and fears, but always when it seemed that he could not bearthe strain, he tackled his tasks once more with the determination hisfriends had so often noted, and the difficulties would fly, the rockypath become smooth, and the heart of William would rejoice in anothervictory.Whimple's business had attained quite respectable proportions now.  Hewas able to pay William a fairly good salary, and the lad was earningit, for he had adopted as his motto one of Tommy Watson's proverbs:"The man who earns what he gets is a dub; the fellow who always doesmore than he's paid for gets to the winning post first."  Whimplehimself, on the shrewd advice of his aunt, had bought and re-sold toexcellent advantage pieces of property in the rapidly developingsuburbs, and was beginning to be known as an expert on law in regard toproperty.  He had also, on the advice of his heart, and withoutconsulting any one but the lady herself, married Mrs. Stewart, andWilliam was almost as proud of his "boss" for doing that as he was ofhis own ability to keep the books and do all the clerical work of theoffice.There was a new Watson too--you have guessed that, of course.  Aone-year-old image of Tommy, who would have had half the doctors andall the trained nurses in town at the newcomer's advent, if his friendshad not restrained him.And Tommy, who, at the time of his marriage, had considered himselffairly well able to meet all current demands on his purse, and even toretire and live in reasonable comfort on what he had managed to putaway, got cold feet as soon as he realised that he was a father.  Thefirst cry from Tommy junior brought the cold sweat to the brow of theauctioneer, who was sitting in his home "den" awaiting news from hiswife's room.  He stole softly downstairs and made his way to theverandah, in the belief that some of the neighbour's children wereplaying there, and bent upon driving them away.  But there were noyoungsters on the verandah, and Tommy, with a sudden realisation of themeaning of that cry, went back to the den, grinning foolishly, andhungrier than ever for news.  When the doctor finally came to him witha hearty, "Well, Dad, there's a bouncing Tommy junior to look afternow," Tommy asked first, "How is she?""Fine," answered the doctor."And the kiddo's a boy?""Yes," said the doctor, "and he's a dandy; you can see 'em both soon,"he added, as he left the room."Me a father!" said Tommy to himself.  "Me!  Oh, joy--and a boy!"  Heseized the cushions on the lounge and threw them up to the ceilingjoyously.  "If I was at the store," he said aloud, and addressing thecushions, "I'd use you to smash something with."Then he took a writing pad and began to cover it with figures, and themore he figured, the less pleased he seemed to be with the results.Finally, "Ahem," said Tommy, "I've got to work now: this'll never do;can't let the wife and kiddy want for anything.  Wonder what we'll haveto get for him first?"  And after more figuring, "Well, it's no goodgetting cold feet over the proposition: it's me with me nose to thegrindstone, and I guess I can stand it for some years yet."There was joy in his store when he arrived there the next morning,proudly happy.  Epstein and Whimple were there, and they greeted himwith dignified pleasure.  The Scottish and English assistants, who werestill at loggerheads over the battle of Bannockburn, were no lesssincere in their congratulations.  When Jimmy Duggan, M.P.P., called toadd the compliments of the People's Party, Tommy was fairly beaming.Oh, but it was good to have such friends.  But the congratulations thattouched him most of all were those of William and Lucien, who calledtogether.  The youths were embarrassed, they hardly knew what to say,and what they did say was incoherent.  But Tommy knew the kindliness ofthe hearts that had prompted the call, and he blew his nose andshuffled his feet uneasily as the boys, after an awkward silence,departed.Lucien and William were fast friends now.  The former was still withSimmons, the architect, who, like Whimple, was beginning to achievesuccess, and now occupied a separate office suite.  He was growingfast; was stouter than William, much slower in action and speech, andwas giving promise of developing into a successful business man.William had confided his plans to Lucien long ago, and had beendelighted with the real interest with which they had been received.They often talked about them, and Lucien had even given somesuggestions that William had acted upon and found to be good.  And oneday Lucien had completed his conquest of the coming comedian by asimple remark.  William, in a more than usual friendly outburst ofconfidence, had built castles in the air, based on his conviction ofattaining success."And if," said Lucien, "you should become a famous and wealthy actor,and have a theatre of your own--I--I----" he looked at Williamwistfully."Yes, Lucien.""Wouldn't it be nice if--if--I was architect enough to design it foryou?  I--I would like----""Oh, Lucien!"  That was all William said, but Lucien laughed happily.CHAPTER XXVIJimmy Duggan, too, had been doing things during the years.  In theearly days of his first session of the legislature Jimmy was regardedas something of a joke by government and opposition sides alike, and bythe press of both parties.  He was constantly referred to in thenewspapers as "Mr. Duggan, the People's Party," and when it came torecording votes on various questions there was sure to be a note to theeffect that "The People's Party voted solidly" for or against theproposal, or Bill, or amendment, as the case might be.  And Jimmyrather liked it.  In the course of time he became thoroughly acquaintedwith "all the boys" in the press gallery.  The embarrassment of hisdetachment from either of the straight political parties was a strongfactor in ripening his friendship with the "gallery," and very soon thereporters began to welcome his advent to the writing room, a well-likestructure between the actual press gallery and one of the galleriesused by the public.  For Jimmy had an amazing fund of stories, and knewhow to tell them, and he also knew that there were times when silencewas imperative, and on such occasions he smoked his pipe and marvelledwhile the reporters turned out reams of copy for their newspapers.To the leaders of the respective parties Jimmy was a real puzzle.  Theymade overtures to him, by proxy, of course.  Far be it from any leaderof any political party to ever care one red cent whether anindependent, real or imitation, would consider throwing in his lot witha party.  Far be it, but--well, the overtures were made, and Jimmyreceived the envoys who bore them on separate occasions withcordiality.  One envoy reported that Jimmy would support his partythrough thick and thin, and the other reported, "We have him, hide andboot and all."  He was no chicken--Jimmy.There was some curiosity as to when Jimmy would make his first speechin the House, and on what subject.  The press gallery, to a man, waswilling to bet that it would be interesting, and not one-hundredth partso long as the first speech made by "The Big Wind."  Attempts to pumpJimmy were of no avail, for he declared with emphatic words andgestures that he didn't know.  "All I'm sure of," he said, "is thatI'll make one some day, if I don't drop dead of heart disease when Iget up to speak.  I hope it'll be some nice quiet afternoon; there'stoo many folks here at nights to suit me.""Well, but you addressed far larger audiences during your campaign,"said one of the reporters."Yes," answered Jimmy, "but it was a different crowd; most of the bunchthat comes to the galleries here at nights are pretty keen politicians.Lots of 'em have been coming for years.  They know all the points oforder, and everything like that, and because I'd know that they knew Iwas tearing holes in the rules of the House, and the English language,I'd likely feel that I'd better not take a fling.  But, what's the useof talking?--I don't know what I'll say or do.  Did any of you fellowsknow Father LeRoy, down our way, who died a little while ago?"Some of them had known him."Well, fifteen years or so ago, there was a gang of housebreakers andburglars that got on people's nerves.  They pulled off many a robbery,beat up a number of people, and had the whole district terrorised.  Thepolice didn't seem able to get on to any good clues, though goodnessknows they worked hard.  Well, it got so that people were afraid toleave anything worth while in their houses when they went to churchservices.  So they stayed at home more frequently than usual.  FatherLeRoy felt pretty bad about his own people who did this, and prayed foran end to 'the plague,' as he called it.  He was sorrowful, too, aboutthe robberies, because he had a sneaking suspicion that some of his ownparishioners were mixed up in them, and he was right."He wasn't much of a man for size, the Father, and was never known tohave displayed any great strength, but he had a bright, keen eye, afirm step, and a hearty hand-shake that showed he was healthful, anyway."After mass one Sunday, I shook hands with him at the door--he wasalways there for a word before we went--and I says to him, 'Father,you'll be having the gang breaking into your house first thing youknow.'"He laughed kind of easy, and says, 'Well, if they come, I hope they'llbe peaceable, for, above all things, I am a man of peace.'"'And if they're not?' I says."And he shrugged his shoulders--that was the French of him from hisfather--and says, 'I don't know what I'd do, but I'd do the best Icould.'"Sure enough, they did break into the Father's house the next night,three of them, and they got into his room on the second floor, and wokehim up from his sleep, because they couldn't find anything worthstealing.  They stood beside his bed, three hulking brutes they were,and threatened him with fearful things if he didn't at once get up andshow them the gold and silver plate they believed was in the house.  Sohe got up kinder quietly, and put some of his clothes on, and all thewhile they were saying very soft-like awful things about the church,and Father LeRoy wasn't saying anything, but all of a sudden he turnsthe key easily in the door, locking it on the inside, you see, andslips the key in his pocket.  Then he looks at them, and they're veryclose to him and very fierce, and one of 'em says, 'We smashed oldTom's head'--that was the Father's servant--'just because he opened hismouth to yell, and now we'll pound yours to a pulp,' and the nextminute that fellow went down with a broken jawbone and a stomach thatnever got well again, I guess.  The others threw themselves upon theFather, and a few minutes afterwards the whole neighbourhood wasawakened by the yells and shoutings from the house.  People and policewere soon there: they broke into the house and burst into the Father'sroom, and there he was, a little pale and breathing heavy, and thethree men piled on the floor in a heap, moaning and groaning, and allcovered with blood.  I was one of them that rushed in with the police,and when things got quietened down a bit I found old Tom in the kitchenwith a pretty sore head, but not in danger.  Well, one of the policeinspectors and me stayed the rest of the night with the Father, thoughhe didn't want us to."The inspector shook the Father's hand about a million times, and hesays to him, 'Sir,' he says, 'what did you think when you locked thatdoor?'"And Father LeRoy said very slow, 'I thought to myself, I don't knowwhat I'll do, but I'll do the best I can.'"'You can take it from me,' says the inspector, 'and I'm an UlsterOrangeman at that, there isn't a man on the force to-day could havedone better,' and he shook the Father's hand again."Maybe," concluded Jimmy, "nobody'll ever want to shake my hand aftermy first speech, and give me praise, but I'll do the best I can,anyway."The Honorable the Provincial Secretary gave Jimmy his first chance inthe annual statement on the hospitals, charities, and prisons of theprovince.  The Secretary dilated at some length on the reasonableprices at which supplies had been obtained, particularly coal and wood.The opposition attacked the Secretary's statement on general grounds.They always did that, anyway: obviously, anything that the governmentdid must be wrong, and the debate that followed dragged along for twoor three days, until even the most incompetent men in the House hadsaid something about it, and had kicked because their speeches did notget more space in the newspapers.  The House was tired to death of thediscussion, and there was a joyous trooping in of members when thewhips sent word that a vote was in sight on an opposition resolutionthat the salary list of the Provincial Secretary's Department should becut in half.  But the end was not yet.  Just as the Speaker began toput the question Jimmy rose.  A half-suppressed groan rose with him,for the members were really tired.  Jimmy heard it, but he only smiled."On behalf of the People's Party," he said, "I would like to ask theHonorable the Provincial Secretary a question or two before the vote istaken, and I presume he'll answer them.""Cheerfully," said the Honorable, who was smiling."I would like to ask then, Mr. Speaker," said Jimmy, "if the honorablegentleman knows anything about coal, or the coal business.""I do not.""He is advised by his officials, I presume?""I am"--no one was paying any attention to the Speaker now--thequestions and answers were being exchanged straight across the floor ofthe House."The honorable gentleman stated," went on Jimmy, "that at last theToronto coal ring had been checkmated, and he had made a thoroughlygood bargain with Howilton dealers.""Yes.""Does he happen to know that the Howilton men turned over theircontract to the Toronto ring?"There was a pause.  The Provincial Secretary looked his surprise, butsat still."Because that is the case," proceeded Jimmy, calmly.  "In fact, theHowilton companies that got the contract are owned by the Toronto ring,anyway."The Provincial Secretary rose hastily, and as hastily expressed theopinion that the honorable member for Mid-Toronto was mistaken.  "It isa grave charge he makes," he said, "and I do not think it has any realfoundation."Jimmy ignored for a moment the challenge as to his veracity.  "TheHowilton companies," he said, "are owned by the Toronto ring.  But ifthe Provincial Secretary had known it, he could have been independentof the ring."  He paused, but the Provincial Secretary was sittinggloomily silent.  "There are at least three new coal firms in thiscity," said Jimmy, "that are out of the ring, and they could havefilled the orders at still smaller prices than the government paid.But the government chose to send out circulars on its old lists, onwhich the names of the new companies do not appear, instead ofadvertising for tenders, and giving all a chance, and the governmenthas been stung--that's all."The opposition members were pounding their desks as Jimmy sat down.The government side was silent.  The Provincial Secretary rose anddeclared in solemn tones that he would ask "to-morrow" that a committeeof the House be named to investigate the whole matter, and he hoped thehonorable gentleman would bring all the facts in his possession beforeit."I will," said Jimmy, laconically, and he did, with the result that thegovernment got a rare black eye that set it rolling down the Hill ofOverthrow, at the bottom of which, a few years later, it landed, andlanded hard."I did my best, anyway," said Jimmy, when, the House having risen, thereporters gathered around him to compliment him on his maiden speech.CHAPTER XXVIISally Miller was able to walk a little now--a very little--but firmly,and without the effort and the pain that the journey around the tablehad cost her in the old days.  She was living with Miss Whimple, whohad insisted on it from the day the doctors had declared the girl fitto be removed from the hospital.  There was no certainty of an absolutecure: the doctors could not promise that, but, with every month, thehope of ultimate recovery strengthened.  She had been a long time inthe hospital, nearly two years, before the signs of improvement weremarked enough to admit of encouragement.  She was a good patient,Sally: her cheerfulness and animation, her belief and trust in thedoctors and the nurses won their hearts.  There were many black hoursfor her; home-sickness, pain, doubt, these were hard things to bear.In the still of the night she often lay sleepless, fighting with thesorrow and longing that oppresses, and striving to repress theexclamations that pain brought to her lips.  And she won.  "She alwayswas a winner," William used to say, "and always will be."There were no lack of visitors to Sally during her stay in thehospital.  Her own relations made frequent trips to the city to seeher.  Miss Whimple was her most constant caller, and the next was--notWilliam.  He did manage to call often, but not so often as Lucien, and,somehow, Sally began to look forward to Lucien's visits with delightfulthrills of anticipation.  Miss Whimple smiled about it, and Williamlaughed.  Sally smiled, too, but, such a smile!  She enjoyed William'svisits immensely.  He was seldom serious with her, and he always hadfunny stories to tell.  In fact, he clothed the most commonplaceincidents of the day with humour when he spoke of them, and shamelesslyinvented stories when he had no actual foundations on which to buildthem.  And Sally always knew when he was spinning yarns, and Williamknew that she did.  Miss Whimple was rather disappointed over William'sattitude toward the girl, and so expressed herself to Epstein one day.The old comedian displayed unwonted heat in his answer.  "Suchfoolishness," he said sharply, "give the lad a chance.  There is agreat career before William.  If he begins thinking of love, or thinkshe is thinking seriously of love now, it will be the end for him.  Ihope you have not been trying to put any such nonsensical ideas intohis head."Miss Whimple did not answer.  The gruffness of the old man hurt alittle.  He was quick to understand her silence, and after a while saidgently, "I beg your pardon: I did not mean to be angry, I--I--the boyand his future are very dear to me--you--I----"She laid a hand on his arm.  "I know--I know," she said.  "I'm afoolish old maid.  You are right about William, but, sometimes, thosewho have lost much dream pleasant dreams and build fairy castles forthose who help to make their sorrow easier to bear."  And then theytalked of other things, of William's future, of Epstein's success, ofTommy Watson's boy.Meanwhile, Sally was sitting on the verandah of Miss Whimple's home,going over again to herself all the memories of her first meeting withLucien.  She had been three months in the hospital when William hadbrought him to her, and was sitting up in bed dressing dolls for aChristmas-tree for the infant patients in the institution.  Williamcame to the bedside with his usual easy air.  Lucien hung back alittle, shy, embarrassed, and blushing.  William took hold of hissleeve and dragged him forward.  "Allow me, Miss Sally Miller," hesaid, with a smile, "to introduce to you Lucien Torrance--LucienWellington Torrance, to give him his full name.  Mister Torrance--MissMiller."They shook hands gravely, and eyed each other in silence."This," went on William, in a more serious tone, "this, Sally, is thechap I used to think was a mutt--honest--until I woke up one day andfound that I was it.  I was the M-U-T-T," he spelled out the word, "andLucien had me beaten a mile for brains and bravery."Lucien was blushing furiously now.  "Don't," he pleaded.William ignored the remark, and smiling, again proceeded, "Honest,Sally, he's a pippin, is Lucien.  Why, first thing we know he'll be theboss architect of Canada, and the real thing in inventions too.  He'salways trying his hand at something; and he'll come out ahead, willLucien."Sally murmured a hope that he would."Oh, you needn't be afraid to speak up, Sally," said William, gaily."You can't phase Lucien.  He'll listen to you until the cows comehome--he's a good listener, and," he laid one arm affectionately onLucien's shoulder, "he's a good doer, too, is my friend Lucien."Lucien came frequently after that, and often alone.  He never had muchto say, and yet Sally felt after his visits as though he had said agreat deal.  He thought much of her, and the first practical outcome ofhis thinking was the invention of an ingenious little table that couldbe mounted on the bed, and moved easily by the patient, so that shecould use it as a book support, or a table on which to lay the triflesshe made for the little children.  William saw it the first day Sallyused it, questioned her closely, took the table back to Lucien, andgave him no rest until there had been a consultation with Whimple andthe first steps had been taken toward patenting the invention.  It isin use by every hospital almost in the world now, but few recall that aboy then barely seventeen years of age invented it.And as Sally thought of the past, she saw Lucien coming steadily up thepathway toward her.  He greeted her with a quiet, "How are you?" andsat beside her on the verandah.  It was almost dark, but warm, and agentle breeze tempered the atmosphere that throughout the day had beenoppressive.  From the verandah the central portion of the city to theBay was stretched out in long regular streets, marked by the glimmeringof electric lights.  Beyond the wharves the lights of the Island,sentinel like, marked the indented shore facing the city, and beyondthat again there flickered faintly from Lake Ontario the lights of afew steamers, some of them pleasure craft, others bearing burdens offreight from, or toward, the sea-ports.In silence they watched for a long time.  It was Lucien who spokefirst.  "Toronto is growing fast," he said, "it will soon be all builtup around here: and it is a fine city--I--I love it--I love it.  Someday--I'm foolish, though----""Some day," she echoed."Some day--I--I--hope I may do something to help to make it a greatercity still.  Work for one's self isn't everything.  Father often talksto me of 'the public good.'  'Every man,' he says, 'should take anintelligent interest in the affairs of his own municipality, and anyman who can serve his city in even a humble capacity should be proud todo it.'""And you will, Lucien--I know you will."  He took one of her hands andheld it in his own, and again they sat silent."I must go," he said, at last.  "Good-night, Sally.""Good-night," she said, gently.He rose, and, looking down at her, he said abruptly, "William's goingsoon; did you know?""Mr. Epstein said he thought it would be soon.""He told me to-day that Mr. Epstein had found a place for him in a goodcompany that will go on the road this fall, after a two weeks'engagement here.  He has only a small part, of course, but he regardsit as his chance, and he's quite delighted.  Next summer he'll comeback to give all his time to study again.  Good-night.""Good-night, Lucien."He turned after he reached the pathway, and called, "It'll be slowwithout William, won't it?""Yes," she answered, and to herself, "but it would be slower withoutyou, Lucien."On his way to the street car he passed Miss Whimple and Epstein andexchanged greetings with them.  When they resumed their walk towardMiss Whimple's house, the old comedian asked her, "Did you notice whathe was whistling as he came along?""Not particularly.""Listen: there he is again."  And faint, but clear and sweet, she heardit."'Sally in our Alley,'" she said, laughingly."Yes," answered Epstein with a chuckle."The dear lad," said Miss Whimple, "he's a fine fellow.  And the deargirl, the dear girl, God help her to a perfect cure."CHAPTER XXVIIIWilliam was William, the fun lover, still; you must not thinkotherwise.  True, he regarded his work more seriously than in the dayswhen he first engaged himself as office boy to Whimple, and hispersistency, determination, and devotion to his studies under thetuition of Epstein were beginning, as hereinbefore chronicled, to bearfruit.  But William was William still: you read that before; it isnecessary, perhaps, to emphasise it.  An irrepressible love of fun, anda cheerful temper, continued to be his great assets; he radiatedsunshine as of yore.  But back of all was a tender heart; a heart thatwas rich in sympathy, and was ever responsive to appeals for help orcomfort.  To his mother he continued to be a sort of puzzle; she neverreally understood him, in fact, and his successes always came as asurprise to her.  Pete, curly-headed and sturdy, with his fondness forfighting, his love of schoolboy sports, and his healthy appetite, shecould understand.  But William; she used to look at him sometimes whenhe was "cheering up the bunch," and wonder if she would ever just knowhow much of it was earnest and just what was put on.This attitude of his mother's troubled William more than anything elseat this period.  His love for her was unalloyed by any feeling towardany other woman or girl of his acquaintance; he often called her his"sweetheart."  He was more gentle toward her than any other member ofthe household, with the exception of little deaf and dumb Dorothy, andhe continually sought her advice in matters of family interest.  Yet heknew that she brooded over him often; and because he knew the reason ofit, so keen was his intuition, he tried to reveal the real William toher more completely than to any one else.Miss Whimple came nearer to "diagnosing" William than any of the womenwho knew him at this time."I've seen that boy," she said to Sally, "give his last cent to helppeople in distress: I've known him to go to trouble that would worry agrown man in order to assist some shiftless body to get a position, forhis trust in people is not easily shaken.  But we'll never know thereal William until--until----"Sally waited, and in a little while Miss Whimple went on.  "Just now,and for a long time to come, I think, his mind will be so strongly setupon success on the stage that he will not allow anything to comebetween.  And, if his health remains good, it seems to me that ourfondest hopes for him in that direction will fall far short of therealisation.  But one day, Sally Miller, there will come to Williamthat which comes to every one of us sooner or later.""Yes.""Yes," said Miss Whimple, so low that the girl hardly caught the words,"yes--love will come to William.  It will have to fight its way overmany barriers, but in the end his heart will be carried by storm.  Thenwe will know a new William Adolphus Turnpike, or some of you youngerfolks will, for I'm too old to be expecting that the good Lord will letme live to see that, and William in love will be worth seeing.  Youknow," she continued in a lighter tone, "I asked him one day just alittle while ago if he had a sweetheart, and he looked at me with thatgleam in his eyes we all know so well as he answered, 'Sure!'"'Who is it?' I asked."'You'd know as much as I do if I told you,' he said."That made me angry, of course, and I told him he was lucky enough tobe too big for me to thrash, as I tried to do the first time I saw him;and you should have seen him grin."'Miss Whimple,' said he, 'I'll never forget you and the parasol aslong as I live.  Say, it was----' but I broke in with, 'Now, who isyour sweetheart, William?' and what do you think he said?""'Mother.'""Exactly!  And I knew he was serious about it, too, though, like afoolish old woman, I must needs go on to tell him that a boy of his ageought to have a real sweetheart.  Well, presently he became very quiet,his mouth set firmly, as it does when he is thinking hard, and helooked straight at me.  'Miss Whimple, you know what real love is,' hesaid.  'I hope when it comes to me I'll be as worthy of it and as trueas you have been,' and then--why, he was the real William again in aflash.  'Say,' he said, 'why don't you go out to a ball game once in awhile?  Lots of ladies go, and the way the Torontos are playing thisseason it looks like they'd be champions again for the second time infour years.  Honest, they've got me wild, and Tommy Watson's crazierthan I am.  He can't go to the games as often as he used to, becausehe's looney about his wife and little Tommy too.  So, when I go and hedoesn't I have to tell the whole story of the game to him, and--say,excuse me, I'll just have time to get to the grounds to see the lastfour innings,' and away he went."Once I asked Whimple if William had a girl, and he told me the boy wastoo busy.  That's the kind of a fool answer a man makes when he eitherdoesn't know, or does know and won't tell.  Then he told me about atrick that Tommy Watson and himself played on William, only it didn'twork out in the way they expected.  It puzzles me to know how men findtime to go into such silliness.  Between them they wrote a letter, in adisguised hand, of course, and supposedly from a girl to William.  Hehad been taking part in one of the amateur performances that Epsteinarranged for the Children's Hospital, and the letter declared that thewriter had been so touched by the wonderful ability displayed byWilliam that she felt she might be forgiven if she did so unmaidenly athing as to ask for a personal interview.  William got the letter--theover-grown boys saw to that--read it through carefully, stowed it awayin one of his pockets, and--well, as Tommy Watson says, he just sattight."A few days afterwards they wrote another, to which William was to senda reply to a certain post-office box.  But there was no sign of ananswer.  A third letter was written, imploring the recipient to havemercy, or words to that effect, and two days afterwards a detectivecalled on Whimple and Tommy Watson.  He found them together in Tommy'sstore and opened the conversation with the hope that they were notwriting any more love letters.  They were dumbfounded.  Before theycould even think of an explanation the detective warned them in hismost official manner that the gentleman whom they were annoying bytheir devotion to the art of letter-writing had decided that on receiptof further epistles he would institute proceedings, and start with afull statement to the press on the matter, including the names of theletter writers."They had sense enough to take the hint, anyway, and enough sense leftover to keep from talking to William about it.  I asked Whimple ifWilliam had ever referred to the subject, and he said not directly.But one afternoon he found one of the letters lying on his desk.  Hetook it to Tommy Watson, who told him he had found one on his desk too.""I wonder what Tommy said about it?" said Sally."Oh! he had one of his made-to-order proverbs on hand, to be sure.  Hesaid, 'Well, you know what our old friend Shakespeare said, "It's awise old one that gets ahead of a bright young one."'""He's really clever, is William," commented Sally."Yes, and like all clever people he is sometimes taken in.  But I'llsay this much for him, he isn't easily gold-bricked, and he learns thelessons of experience thoroughly.  He's like his 'Pa' in that respect,and he's as loyal to his 'Pa' as ever.  In all the time I have knownhim he's looked upon his 'Pa' as the smartest man he knows.""Yes," said Sally, smiling.  "Whenever he wants to impress one as tothe cleverness of some other person he brings in 'Pa,' and he alwaysadds, 'It's a wise guinea who can put one over on my Pa.'""It is, too," said Miss Whimple.  'Pa' Turnpike is one of the shrewdestmen I ever met, and one of the kindliest too.  William and 'thebunch'--can't you imagine you hear him saying it, Sally?--'the bunch'are proud of 'Pa,' and they have a right to be."CHAPTER XXIXWhat should be left out of a chronicle dealing with the actual eventsand sayings of real people?  This chronicler does not know, and, as aconsequence, omissions from the true and unvarnished record of thepeople hereinbefore dealt with are the consequences of guesses ratherthan of deliberate and judicious or injudicious selections.  Readersmay argue that out for themselves.  Nothing has been said, forinstance, of the triumph of Pete Turnpike over the mules owned by hisfather, and the day he rode them, circus fashion, with a foot on eachmule, down one of the principal streets; the charge of "obstructing"that followed; the hearing of the same in the police court, and Pete'sdismissal with a warning on account of his tender years, which latter,however, did not save him from chastisement by Turnpike pater.  Nor hasanything been said of Pete's conversion during a revival meeting; hisexhortations to the family to follow his course, until he almost drovethem insane, and his fall from grace when a new boy at the schooldeclared he could lick Pete with one hand tied behind his back.  Heloudly, and willingly, changed his opinion after Pete got through withhim; nay, he admitted that if Pete had been hobbled and blind of oneeye he would not have stood a chance against him.  But, somewhere,there should be found room to tell of William's encounter andsubsequent relations with a judge of the Common Pleas Division of theHigh Court of Justice, because, in after years--well, never mind thatpart of it.In the course of his work William was frequently in the law courts, andone sultry September afternoon, this was in the first year of hisengagement with Whimple, he got into an argument with the office boy ofanother lawyer on the merits of the Toronto baseball team.  Williambore himself tolerably well, until he was told that he knew as muchabout baseball as a hog's foot, and was, without doubt, the sassiest"four-flusher" in the city of Toronto.  "I may be a four-flusher," saidWilliam, calmly, "but I ain't allowing any pie-face loafer your size tosay it," and he smacked the boy's cheek.  A hot encounter followed, thecontestants being so determined to rub each other's head through thestone flooring of the corridor that they did not notice his lordship,the judge, with the officials of the court around him, come from thecourt room.  They noticed nothing, in fact, until a deputy sheriff fellover them as they rolled on the floor.  The deputy sheriff rosehastily, and angrily, and drew one foot back to plant a kick on thefirst part of boyish anatomy that he could reach, when the judge, robesand all, stooped down, grasped each boy by the neck, and placed him onhis feet.  Still retaining his hold, he looked at the boys somewhatsternly--if the mouth was an index of his thoughts, but if hiseyes--anyway, William saw his eyes first, and smiled.The judge was a surprisingly young man for a judge.  In his day he hadbeen a champion boxer and football player.  It was whispered, indeed,that no boxing bout of importance since his appointment had beenwithout his presence as a spectator.  He regarded William gravely.  "Hesmiles," he said solemnly, "smiles in the presence of the august courtwhose serenity he has seen fit to disturb."  The other boy wasblubbering, and to him the judge said, "This coming man realises theenormity of his crime.  He weeps the bitter tears of one discovered.He repents his misdeeds.  Officer," to the deputy sheriff, "take thenames of these disturbers of the peace.  Upon their fitting punishmentI will ponder."  He relaxed his hold and passed on.A day or two later he ran across William in the corridor.  This timehis lordship was without the robes, and in street attire looked youngerthan ever.  His smile of recognition brought an answering smile fromWilliam.  The lad would have passed on, but the judge stopped him."Still at liberty, I see," he said."Yes, sir.""Um--see that you remain worthy of it: it's a precious thing, liberty."Then, "And now, in my unofficial capacity, would you mind telling methe cause of the desperate encounter of the other day?"The twinkle in the judge's eyes reassured William.  "Well, sir," hesaid, "that fellow said the Torontos was selling games.  He said theyhad it all fixed about who was to win the pennant before the seasonstarted."The judge, himself a baseball fan, looked up and down the corridor, andthus addressed William.  "Did--er--that is to say--did you----" hepaused.William, one palm outspread, the other falling on it in rhythm to thewords, his eyes sparkling, asserted--"Honest, judge, I walloped him forfair.  When we got outside he starts all over again, so I herds himinto a lane and we had it out.  Gee!" reflectively, "he was tough, butI did him up all right."His lordship waved a hand deprecatingly.  "Enough, enough, boy," hesaid, solemnly.  Then, in a lighter tone, "Didn't I see you at the gamea week ago Saturday?""You did, you did, sir, I sat right behind you, and--and----""Go on.""I guess I slapped your back when you got kinder excited in the----""Seventh innings, with the score three to nothing for Montreal,Torontos with two men on bases and nobody out"--the judge was talkingrapidly now--"big Bill Hannigan at the bat, and----""What did Hannigan do to the ball," William broke in, "but slam it overthe fence for a home run, bringing in the two on bases and tying thescore!  Oh, joy!"  A clerk of the court who came out of his office atthis moment snickered audibly at the sight of a boy doing a little wardance in the corridor and a judge smiling approvingly.Throughout the years that followed, the judge and William maintained afriendly relationship.  His lordship was eventually admitted into thesecret of William's ambition, though it was not until theiracquaintanceship had lasted three years that he took it seriously, andthen he never failed to urge William to "stick to it."  From Whimple,and later from "Chuck" Epstein, he obtained further light, and, on thecomedian's invitation, attended two or three of the amateurentertainments in which William had a part.Epstein was chary in consenting to William appearing in the cast ofsuch entertainments, and William could not be persuaded to do anythingin this regard unless Epstein favoured it.  Afterwards, they would goover the performance together, Epstein in the role of critic, and theold man's suggestions and advice and William's own observations anddescriptions of his emotions, and his reasons for this or that slightdeparture from the lines and action originally mapped out, aided in themaking of the William Adolphus Turnpike so beloved of the theatre-goersto-day.The judge enjoyed those performances, and he rather surprised Epsteinand William both by making suggestions in respect to some of them thatwere valuable and illuminating.  "How did you come to think of that?"asked Epstein curiously, in regard to one idea advanced by the judge."I think," answered his lordship, slowly, "that a court is the best ofdramatic schools.  It is so real, too; there is much of tragedy and agreat deal of comedy too--unconscious, a lot of it.  I have always beenrather keenly interested in the study of the people who came before me,particularly in criminal cases.  It seems to me that there is still awide field for a play."There was a long pause.  Epstein, who was looking keenly at the judge,broke in.  "There is," he said, "there is--and you could write it, yourlordship."The judge started.  "Do you think so?" he asked, somewhat sharply.Epstein nodded.  And now, of course, the reader of this chronicle hasguessed the identity of the author of the play in which William madehis first appearance as a "Star."  Yes--a judge--hiding under a_nom-de-plume_, a judge of the High Court, no less, wrote _Our HighCourt_, that most delightful of the comedies of our own times.  Therefollowed, a few days afterwards, a long talk between William and thejudge, in the latter's room in the court house.  William had called atthe court house on business, and the judge, who had espied him in thecorridor, had called him in.  For a time their conversation was of thestage and William's prospective future thereon, and then, very quietly,the judge began to talk about William himself.  Presently William beganto lean toward the talker, intent, earnest; no one had spoken to himbefore just like this.  His father had tried once or twice, but hisevident embarrassment, his halting sentences, and his fear lest Williamshould misunderstand, had frightened, rather than impressed, the boy.But the judge was saying the things William knew his father had triedto say, and he was losing none of them.  The sacredness of the body,his lordship was emphasising this, and dilating upon it: the purity ofthe heart and mind; respect of woman; the honour of a man; reverence toGod.  William afterwards wrote the words out almost as fully as thoughhe had taken them all down at the time.  Nothing had so moved him asthis talk.  When he stood at the door to go, the judge placed one handon his shoulder, and said simply, "My boy, it has cost me something tosay these things.  I am a husband and a father.  God knows how much hehas to forgive in me--God--knows.  Those I love best--my wife--mylittle girl--they could never dream.  But--will you try to remember,sometimes, some of these things?"William put out his hand and the judge shook it warmly.  The boy waslate getting back to the office, and Whimple was testy.  "Where onearth have you been, William?" he asked, sharply; "there's a good dealof work to do, and we can hardly catch up to it to-day.""I'm sorry.  I've been listening to a man," said William, quietly."Must have been a preacher, and a mighty solemn one at that, judgingfrom your sober face," said Whimple, more gently."Not exactly a preacher, but I never heard a better sermon," answeredWilliam, quietly, "never;" and then he started on his work, and kept atit to such effect that, when they closed up for the night, Whimpledeclared, as he had often done before, "You're certainly a wonder,William."CHAPTER XXXWilliam made his first professional appearance in Toronto in the autumnof that year with Joe Mertle's Company in _Old Etobicoke_, a ruralcomedy-drama that was immensely popular in its day and had a long run.The company was two weeks in the old Academy of Music before taking theroad, and from the first night drew large audiences.  William had twoparts.  In the first and second acts he merely "appeared," describinghimself to his friends as "part of the scenery."  In the third andfourth acts he had a speaking part, and in the latter a chance for alittle bit of comedy that, short as it was, gave him a realopportunity.  The whole Turnpike family was there, from Dorothy up, sowas Whimple, Miss Whimple, Tommy Watson, both his assistants, SallyMiller, Lucien Torrance, and "Chuck" Epstein of course.  They all sattogether, occupying two boxes.  The old comedian was too happy to saymuch even between the acts.  He watched William keenly, and oftennodded approval, though he frowned once or twice when the youth madelittle "breaks."  When the curtain fell, he waited with the others forWilliam, and, as they stood in the lobby, the dean of the dramaticcritics, a life-long friend of the old comedian, approached him.  "Notbad, Epstein," he said."It will make a hit on the road," Epstein answered."Know any of the cast outside of Mertles?""A few.""Who is the kid with the funny name--'William Adolphus Turnpike'?""Why?""He's the pick of the new ones.  There's a great promise in that lad.If he doesn't get swelled head early in the game he'll soon be shining."The old comedian smiled happily.  "He's a friend of mine: a pupil, in away--I'm glad you like him.""You're a rare one to pick out the good ones, 'Chuck,'" said thecritic, warmly.  "The lad will be a credit to you if----""If," echoed Epstein."If he doesn't get swelled head, as I said before.  That's the troublewith a lot of the promising ones," he added, as he walked away."He may get swelled head," said Epstein to himself, as William joinedthe waiting group, "but it won't last long, I'm sure of that."  Hegreeted William affectionately.  "You'll do, boy," he said kindly,"you'll do.  There are some things about your part I'd like to discusswith you, but I'm proud of you, William."The little supper for William and "the bunch," arranged by TommyWatson, was a rather gloomy affair.  Pa and Ma Turnpike were not usedto such affairs; the younger Turnpikes were timid.  William was silent,and all were under the depressing spell of the knowledge that theywould soon part with him.The morning papers the next day were very kindly in their criticism ofthe play and of the company, but only one of them, that for which thedean of critics wrote, had any special mention of William.  "His partwas a small one: until the fourth act he had no real chance, and thenhe made the most of it.  There is rare promise in the youth, but thereare many pitfalls for those who go on the stage.  The next few yearswill be a time of testing for him: if he emerges successfully there isno reason to doubt that he will win his way to the front rank as acomedian."  Epstein's eyes were tear-dimmed as he read the words:William cut them out of his own copy of the paper and kept them stowedaway with other precious belongings that he carried on his travels foryears.The company left Toronto on a Sunday morning for a five months' tour.Pa and Ma Turnpike and William did not go to bed after he reached homefrom the theatre on the Saturday night.  There was no trunk packing todo; that had been attended to hours before.  But there was much to besaid between those three, and none could say it without tears andbroken voices.  And so at last they sat together, Pa Turnpike on oneside and William on the other side of Ma's easy chair.  She held one ofWilliam's hands tightly in her own, and when she could, she talked tohim the mother talk that so many have heard and heeded not, and wouldgive all they have to hear again.  And William made promises to keephis feet dry; to watch his throat; to be careful of the food he ate; totake all the sleep he could, and then, fifty times at least, to leaveliquor alone, and to write home as often as he could.  Pa Turnpikebacked his wife strongly on the liquor question.  "Leave it alone,boy," he said, "leave it alone: it never was, and never will be, anygood."  And William nodded assuringly.  "Don't be afraid of that," hesaid confidently, "I've got no use for it."At eight o'clock in the morning there was a hurried call to thebedrooms occupied by the younger Turnpikes, and William kissed themgently, for all but Pete were fast asleep.  Pete jumped out of bed anddressed hurriedly.  "I'm going to the station with 'Mister Actor Man,'"he announced, and a few minutes later William, Pete, and Pa Turnpike,in one of the latter's express wagons, with one trunk containingWilliam's stock of clothes, proceeded briskly down the street.William's mother stood at the door answering with her own the waving ofWilliam's handkerchief until the wagon turned a corner. . . .  Then shewent back to weep.Inside the Union Station--that horror of horrors that still appals thetrain-borne visitors to a great city--William and his escorts were metby Lucien, Whimple, and Epstein.  There was much affected gaiety, butthe hopes for William's future were almost overwhelmed in the deepregret at his departure.  Tommy Watson was an absentee, and Williamfelt this keenly, although he said nothing of it.  Pa Turnpike made ashrewd guess at the cause of his boy's furtive glances around thestation, and murmured to Epstein, "I thought Mr. Watson would have beendown.""So did I," answered the old comedian, a little apologetically, "butperhaps----" and then he looked around sharply as the music of a brassband echoed along the vaulted roof of the station.  And what think youthe band was playing?  "Will ye no come back again."  Yes, and playingit well, too.  As the band came into view from one of the archedcrossings, the faces of the group around William lit up with smiles,for, marching proudly in front, and carrying an enormous bunch ofroses, was Tommy Watson, his head erect, his shoulders well back, hisface aglow.  To his signal the band aligned in front of the littlegroup, and broke into a new tune, a lilting march, written around athen popular song, now almost forgotten, "Bill, our Bill."  Perhapsthere are some who still remember the chorus:--  "Bill, our Bill, see him smile,  On fair days and dull days,  Oh, it's well worth while,  To watch him at work,  To see him at his play;  Bill, our Bill; see him smile."After they had played the chorus several times, the bandsmen sang it,William's friends joining in."Rotten verse," said Lucien Torrance, when they were through, "but itfits you, William Adolphus Turnpike--our Bill.""Where did you get the band, Tommy?" asked Epstein."Minstrel show; arrived in Toronto before daylight for a week'sengagement," retorted Tommy, proudly, and in curt sentences; "know theleader; copped him at breakfast; arranged terms in five minutes; greatsend-off to the coming world-famous comedian.  Sorry couldn't bringTommy junior down; sleeping; would have enjoyed it."Then to William he handed the roses.  "Boy," he said gravely, and witha touch of tenderness in his tone, "a lady, a young lady, gave me thesewith this message, 'Please tell Mr. Turnpike I wish him success.'"Some say William blushed.  William still stoutly denies it; but hecould not speak for a moment.  His heart was beating wildly; his handstrembled as he took the roses and held them a second or two to hisface.  He looked up again, self-possessed and quiet.  "Thank you,Tommy," he said, simply."Is there a----" began Lucien, eagerly.William broke in gently, "Don't, Lucien," he said, "my career isfirst--yet.  I dare not hope--what sometimes I have dared to hope.I----""All aboard!"  The hoarse cry of the train despatcher rolled out thewords, and the clanging of the station bell followed.  As the trainbegan to slowly draw out of the station the band again struck up "Bill,our Bill."  William stood on the rear platform of the train, the rosesin one hand, the other waving farewell until the train disappeared, thewhile the band played on.Then his friends slowly left the station, Lucien walking with TommyWatson.  "Roses for William," said Lucien, "and from a young lady!""Yes--and a charming young lady, too, my boy.""Who is she, Tommy?" Lucien ventured, diffidently.Tommy shook his head slowly.  "Not now, Lucien; not now.  The dreams ofyouth do not always come true, but," with a happy laugh, "William hassuch a way of making his come true.  Who knows?"***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WILLIAM ADOLPHUS TURNPIKE********** This file should be named 25562.txt or 25562.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/5/5/6/25562Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://www.gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://www.gutenberg.org/about/contactFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit:http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of Tales from Blackwood, by VariousThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Tales from Blackwood       Volume 5Author: VariousRelease Date: March 11, 2011 [EBook #35552]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TALES FROM BLACKWOOD ***Produced by D Alexander, Juliet Sutherland and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net TALES FROM "BLACKWOOD" Contents of this Volume _Adventures in Texas_ _How we got Possession of the Tuileries.  By Professor Aytoun_ _Captain Paton's Lament. By J. G. Lockhart_ _The Village Doctor. By the late Countess D'Arbouville_ _A Singular Letter from Southern Africa. By the Ettrick Shepherd_ WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS EDINBURGH AND LONDONTALES FROM "BLACKWOOD."ADVENTURES IN TEXAS.ABRIDGED FROM THE GERMAN OF SEALSFIELDBY FREDERICK HARDMAN.[_MAGA._ NOVEMBER, DECEMBER, 1848.]CHAPTER I.A SCAMPER IN THE PRAIRIE."What took you to Texas?" is a question that has so frequently beenasked me by friends in the States, that a reply to it is perhaps themost appropriate commencement I can make to a sketch of my adventures inthat country. Many of my fellow-citizens have expressed theirsurprise--more flattering to me and my family than to Texas--that a sonof Judge Morse of Maryland, instead of pitching his tent in his nativeState, should have deserted it for a land which certainly, at the timeI first went to it, was in anything but good repute, and of whosepopulation the Anglo-Saxon portion mainly consisted of outlaws and badcharacters, expelled or fugitive from the Union. The facts of the casewere these:--I went to Texas, endorsed, as I may say, by a company ofour enlightened New York Yankees, whose speculative attention was justthen particularly directed to that country. In other words, I had thegood or ill luck, as you may choose to think it, to be the possessorof a Texas-Land-Scrip--that is to say, a certificate issued by theGalveston Bay and Texas Land Company, declaring and making known to allwhom it might concern, that Mr Edward Morse had paid into the hands ofthe cashier of the said company the sum of one thousand dollars, inconsideration of which, he, the said Edward Morse, was duly entitled andauthorised to select, within the district and territory of the aforesaidGalveston Bay and Texas Land Company, a tract of land of the extent often thousand acres, neither more nor less, to take possession of andsettle upon it, and, in a word, to exercise over it all the rights of aproprietor; under the sole condition that in the selection of his tenthousand acres he should not infringe on the property or rights of theholders of previously given certificates.Ten thousand acres of the finest land in the world, and under a heavencompared to which our Maryland sky, bright as it is, appears dull andfoggy! It was certainly a tempting bait; too tempting by far not to becaught at by many in those times of speculation; and accordingly, ourfree and enlightened citizens bought and sold their millions of Texanacres just as readily as they did their thousands of towns and villagesin Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan, and their tens of thousandsof shares in banks and railways. It was a speculative fever, which hassince, we may hope, been in some degree cured. At any rate, the remediesapplied have been tolerably severe.I had not escaped the contagion, and, having got the land on paper, Ithought I should like to see it in dirty acres. My intention was toselect my plot of ground and take possession of it, and then, if I didnot like the country, to turn it into dollars again. If, upon the otherhand, the country pleased me, I would return to Maryland, get togetherwhat was needful for the undertaking, and set up my roof-tree in Texasfor good and all. Accordingly, in company with a friend who had asimilar venture, I embarked at Baltimore on board the Catcher schooner,and, after a three weeks' voyage, arrived in Galveston Bay.The grassy shores of this bay, into which the river Brazos emptiesitself, rise so little above the surface of the water, which theystrongly resemble in colour, that it would be difficult to discoverthem, were it not for three stunted trees growing on the westernextremity of a long lizard-shaped island that stretches nearly sixtymiles across the bay, and conceals the mouth of the river. These treesare the only landmark for the mariner; and, with their exception, not asingle object--not a hill, a house, nor so much as a bush, relieves thelevel sameness of the island and adjacent continent.After we had, with some difficulty, got on the inner side of the island,a pilot came on board and took charge of the vessel. The first thing hedid was to run us on a sandbank, off which we got with no small labour,and by the united exertions of sailors and passengers, and at lengthentered the river. In our impatience to land, I and my friend left theschooner in a cockleshell of a boat, which upset in the surge, and wefound ourselves floundering in the water. Luckily it was not very deep,and we escaped with a thorough drenching.When we had scrambled on shore, we gazed about us for some time beforewe could persuade ourselves that we were actually upon land, sounnatural was its aspect. It was, without exception, the strangest coastwe had ever seen, and there was scarcely a possibility of distinguishingthe boundary between earth and water. The green grass grew down to theedge of the green sea, and there was only the streak of white foam leftby the latter upon the former to serve as a line of demarcation. Beforeus was a perfectly level plain, a hundred or more miles in extent,covered with long fine grass, rolling in waves before each puff of thesea-breeze, with neither tree, nor house, nor hill, to vary the unbrokenmonotony of the surface. Ten or twelve miles towards the north andnorth-west, we distinguished some dark masses, which we afterwardsdiscovered to be groups of trees; but to our eyes they looked exactlylike islands in a green sea, and we subsequently learned that suchgroups, innumerable in Texan prairies, are called islands by the peopleof the country. A more appropriate name, or one better describing theirappearance, could not be given to them.Proceeding along the shore, we came to a blockhouse situated behind asmall tongue of land projecting into the river, and decorated with theflag of the Mexican republic, waving in all its glory from the roof.This building, the only one of which, at that time, Galveston harbourcould boast, served, as may be supposed, for a great variety of uses.It was the custom-house and the barracks for the garrison (consistingof a company of Mexican infantry), the residence of the controller ofcustoms, and of the civil and military intendant, the headquarters ofthe officer commanding, and it served, moreover, as hotel, and wine andspirit store. Alongside the board, on which was depicted a sort ofhieroglyphic, intended for the Mexican eagle, hung a rum-bottle doingduty as a sign, and the republican banner threw its protecting shadowover an announcement of--"Brandy, Whisky, and accommodation for Man andBeast."Approaching the house, we saw the whole garrison assembled before thedoor. It consisted of a dozen dwarfish, spindle-shanked Mexicansoldiers, none of them so big or half so strong as American boys offifteen, and whom I would have backed a single Kentucky woodsman, armedwith a riding-whip, to have driven to the four winds of heaven. Theseheroes all sported tremendous beards, whiskers, and mustaches, and had ahabit of knitting their brows, in the endeavour, as we supposed, to lookfierce and formidable. They were crowding round a table of rough planks,and playing a game at cards, in which they were so deeply engrossed thatthey took no notice of our approach. Their officer, however, came out ofthe house to meet us with a friendly greeting.Captain Cotton, formerly editor of the _Mexican Gazette_, now civil andmilitary superintendent of Galveston, customs-director, harbour-master,and tavern-keeper, and a Yankee to boot, seemed to trouble his head--tothe credit of his good sense be it said--much less about his variousdignities and titles (of which he had more than there were soldiers inhis garrison) than about his capital French and Spanish wines, which, itis to be presumed, he laid in duty free. As to the soldiers, in all mylife I never saw such wretched-looking, shrivelled dwarfs. I could nothelp fancying them grotesque elves or goblins, transported thither bysome old sorcerer's power. We were never tired of staring at them and atthe country, which also had something supernatural in its aspect. It waslike an everlasting billiard-table, without an end. It is a strangefeeling, I can tell you, after being three weeks at sea, to run into aharbour which is no harbour, and to land upon a shore which is only halfland, and which seems each moment about to roll away in waves from underyour feet. Our fellow-passengers, several of whom had now landed andjoined us, gazed about them as puzzled and bewildered as we were, andhastened into the blockhouse with a speed which showed them to beassailed by the same uneasy feeling as ourselves. Looking out from theblockhouse, the interminable expanse of meadow and ocean was blendedinto one vast plain, out of which the building rose like a diminutiveisland. It was with a sensation of real relief that we once more foundourselves on board our schooner.It took us three full days to ascend the river Brazos to the town ofBrazoria, a distance of only thirty miles. On the first day, nothingbut the everlasting meadow was to be seen on either hand; but, on thesecond, we got nearer to islands: the pasture became a park, dotted withmagnificent groups of trees. Not a sign of man was visible in thisstupendous park--a boundless ocean of grass and foliage. An ocean ofthis kind has a far more powerful effect upon those who for the firsttime wander through its solitudes than has an ocean of water. We sawthis exemplified in our travelling companions, land-seekers likeourselves, with the sole difference that, not being overburdened withthe circulating medium, they had come without scrip. They were by nomeans of the class of sentimental travellers--nothing of the Yorickabout them--but, on the contrary, were wild, rough fellows, who hadplayed all sorts of mad pranks during the three weeks' voyage. Here,however, they all, without exception, became quiet--nay, sedate andserious. The very wildest of them, and some of them really were asrude and desperate a lot as ever roamed the world round in search ofadventures--grew taciturn, and gave utterance to none of the coarseoaths and horrible blasphemies with which, when at sea, they hadfrequently disgusted us. They behaved like people who had just entered achurch. All their countenances wore an expression of gravity and awe.And, in a certain sense, we surely might be said to have entered one ofGod's temples; for what more noble temple could be erected in his honourthan the magnificent scene around us! All was so still, and solemn, andmajestic! Forest and meadow, trees and grass, all so pure and fresh, asif just from the hand of the mighty and eternal Artificer. No trace ofman's sinful hand, but all the beautiful, immaculate work of God!Fifteen miles above the mouth of the river Brazos, we entered the firstforest. Sycamores, and, further on, pecan-trees, waved on either handover the water. We saw a herd of deer, and a large flock of wildturkeys, both of which, already tolerably shy, took to flight at ourappearance. The quality of the land was, as will be easily imagined,the point to which our attention was chiefly directed. On the coastwe had found it light and sandy, with a very thin crust of goodsoil, but without any signs of swamp or slime; further from the sea,the crust or fertile surface increased in thickness from one tofour--eight--twelve--at last fifteen--and, at Brazoria, twenty feet overthe bed of sand and loam. As yet we had seen nothing like a hillock ora stone; and indeed it would have been very difficult in a district ahundred miles broad and long, to have found a stone as big as a pigeon'segg. On the other hand, there was wood in plenty for houses and fences;so we had no cause for anxiety in that respect. Our hopes grew brightereach mile that we advanced.On our arrival at Brazoria, however, those sanguine hopes received acruel blow. At the time I speak of--namely, in the year 1832--Brazoriawas an important town--for Texas, that is to say--consisting of abovethirty houses, three of which were of brick, three of boards, and theremainder of logs, all thoroughly American, with the streets arrangedin the American manner, in straight lines and at right angles to eachother. The only objection to the place was, that in the spring, at theseason of the floods, it was all under water; but the worthy Brazoriansoverlooked this little inconvenience, in consideration of theinexhaustible fertility of the soil. It was early in March when wearrived, but we found already an abundance of new potatoes, beans, peas,and the most delicious artichokes that ever rejoiced an epicure. But wealso found something else, much less agreeable to my friend and myself,and that was, that our scrip was not quite so good as it might be,and--like much other scrips, past, present, and to come--bore a strongerresemblance to waste paper than to bank-notes. Our unpleasant doubtsbecame a fatal certainty on the arrival of William Austin, son ofColonel Austin. He gave us to read the report of the proceedings of theMexican congress, after perusing which, we were within an ace oflighting our cigars with our certificates.It appeared that, in the year 1824, the Mexican Congress had passed anact, having for its object the encouragement of emigration from theUnited States to Texas. In consequence of this act, an agreement wasentered into with contractors--or _empresarios_, as they call them inMexico--who bound themselves to bring a certain number of settlers intoTexas within a given time, at their own charges, and without any expenseto the Mexican government. On the other hand, the Mexican government hadengaged to furnish land to these emigrants at the rate of five squareleagues to every hundred families; but to this agreement the specialcondition was attached, that all settlers should be, or become, RomanCatholics. Failing this, and until they gave satisfactory proofs oftheir belonging to the Church of Rome, the validity of their claims tothe land was not recognised, and they were liable any day to be turnedout of the country at the point of the bayonet.Of all this, the New York "Galveston-Bay-and-Texas-Land-Company," likesmart Yankees as they were, had wisely said not a word to us, but hadsold us the land with the assurance that it had been placed at theirdisposal by the Mexican government, on the sole condition of theirimporting into it, within the year, a certain number of settlers. Suchwas the tenor of their verbal and written declarations, such the tenorof the scrip; trusting to which, we had set out on our wild-goose-chase.Clear it now was that we had been duped and taken in; equally evidentthat the Roman Catholic Mexican government would have nothing to say tous heretics.This information threw us into no small perplexity. Our Yankee friendsat Brazoria, however, laughed at our dilemma, and told us that we wereonly in the same plight as hundreds of our countrymen, who had come toTexas in total ignorance of this condition, but who had not the lesstaken possession of their land and settled there; that they themselveswere amongst the number; and that, although it was just as likely theywould turn negroes as Roman Catholics, they had no idea of being turnedout of their houses and plantations; that, at any rate, if the Mexicanstried it, they had their rifles with them, and should be apt, theyreckoned, to burn powder before they allowed themselves to be kicked offsuch an almighty fine piece of soil. So, after a while, we began tothink, that as we had paid our money and come so far, we might do asothers had done before us--occupy our land and wait the course ofevents. The next day we each bought a horse, or _mustang_, as they callthem there, which animals were selling at Brazoria for next to nothing,and rode out into the prairie to look for a convenient spot to settle.These mustangs are small horses, rarely above fourteen hands high, andare descended from the Spanish breed introduced by the originalconquerors of the country. During the three centuries that have elapsedsince the conquest of Mexico, they have increased and multiplied to anextraordinary extent, and are to be found in vast droves in the Texanprairies, although they now begin to be somewhat scarcer. They are takenwith the _lasso_, concerning which instrument or weapon I will here saya word or two, notwithstanding that it has been often described.The lasso is usually from twenty to thirty feet long, very flexible,and composed of strips of twisted ox-hide. One end is fastened to thesaddle, and the other, which forms a running noose, held in the handof the hunter, who, thus equipped, rides out into the prairie. When hediscovers a troop of wild horses, he manoeuvres to get to windward ofthem, and then to approach as near to them as possible. If he be anexperienced hand, the horses seldom or never escape him; and as soon ashe finds himself within twenty or thirty feet of them, he throws thenoose with unerring aim over the neck of the one he has selected forhis prey. This done, he turns his own horse sharp round, gives him thespur, and gallops away, dragging his unfortunate captive after him,breathless, and with his windpipe so compressed by the noose, thathe is unable to make the smallest resistance, but, after a few yards,falls headlong to the ground, and lies motionless and almost lifeless,sometimes indeed badly hurt and disabled. From that day forward, thehorse which has been thus caught never forgets the lasso; the mere sightof it makes him tremble in every limb; and, however wild he may be, itis sufficient to show it to him, or to lay it on his neck, to render himas tame and docile as a lamb.The horse taken, next comes the breaking in, which is effected in a noless brutal manner than his capture. The eyes of the unfortunate animalare covered with a bandage, and a tremendous bit, a pound weight ormore, clapped into his mouth; the horsebreaker puts on a pair of spurssix inches long, with rowels like penknives, and jumping on his back,urges him to his very utmost speed. If the horse tries to rear, or turnsrestive, one pull, and not a very hard one either, at the instrument oftorture they call a bit, is sufficient to tear his mouth to shreds, andcause the blood to flow in streams. I have myself seen horses' teethbroken with these barbarous bits. The poor beast whinnies and groanswith pain and terror; but there is no help for him; the spurs are athis flanks, and on he goes full gallop, till he is ready to sink fromfatigue and exhaustion. He then has a quarter of an hour's rest allowedhim; but scarcely has he recovered breath, which has been ridden andspurred out of his body, when he is again mounted, and has to go throughthe same violent process as before. If he breaks down during this rudetrial, he is either knocked on the head or driven away as useless; butif he holds out, he is marked with a hot iron, and left to graze on theprairie. Henceforward, there is no particular difficulty in catchinghim when wanted; his wildness is completely punished out of him, but forit is substituted the most confirmed vice and malice that can possiblybe conceived. These mustangs are unquestionably the most deceitful andspiteful of all the equine race. They seem perpetually looking out foran opportunity of playing their master a trick; and very soon after Igot possession of mine, I was near paying for him in a way that I hadcertainly not calculated upon.We were going to Bolivar, and had to cross the river Brazos. I was thelast but one to get into the boat, and was leading my horse carelesslyby the bridle. Just as I was about to step in, a sudden jerk, and a cryof "Mind your beast!" made me jump on one side; and lucky was it that Idid so. My mustang had suddenly sprung back, reared up, and then thrownhimself forward upon me with such force and fury, that, as I got out ofhis way, his fore feet went completely through the bottom of the boat. Inever in my life saw an animal in such a paroxysm of rage. He curled uphis lips till his whole range of teeth was visible, his eyes literallyshot fire, the foam flew from his mouth, and he gave a wild screamingneigh that had something quite diabolical in its sound. Whilst I stoodperfectly thunderstruck at this outbreak, one of the party took a lassoand very quietly laid it over the animal's neck. The effect was magical.With closed mouth, drooping ears, and head low, there stood themustang, meek and docile as any old jackass. The change was so suddenand comical, that we all burst out laughing; although, when I came toreflect on the danger I had run, it required all my love of horses toprevent me from shooting the brute upon the spot.Mounted upon this ticklish steed, and in company with my friend, I madevarious excursions to Bolivar, Marion, Columbia, Anahuac, incipientcities consisting of from five to twenty houses. We also visitednumerous plantations and clearings, to the owners of some of which wewere known, or had messages of introduction; but either with or withoutsuch recommendations, we always found a hearty welcome and hospitablereception, and it was rare that we were allowed to pay for ourentertainment.We arrived one day at a clearing, which lay a few miles off the way fromHarrisburg to San Felipe de Austin, and belonged to a Mr Neal. He hadbeen three years in the country, occupying himself with the breedingof cattle, which is unquestionably the most agreeable, as well asprofitable, occupation that can be followed in Texas. He had betweenseven and eight hundred head of cattle, and from fifty to sixty horses,all mustangs. His plantation, like nearly all the plantations in Texasat that time, was as yet in a very rough state; and his house, althoughroomy and comfortable enough inside, was built of unhewn tree-trunks, intrue backwoodsman style. It was situated on the border of one of theislands, or groups of trees, between two gigantic sycamores, whichsheltered it from the sun and wind. In front, and as far as could beseen, lay the prairie, with its waving grass and many-coloured flowers;behind the dwelling arose the cluster of forest trees in all theirprimeval majesty, laced and bound together by an infinity of wild vines,which shot their tendrils and clinging branches hundreds of feet upwardsto the very top of the trees, embracing and covering the whole islandwith a green network, and converting it into an immense bower of vineleaves, which would have been no unsuitable abode for Bacchus and histrain.These islands are one of the most enchanting features of Texan scenery.Of infinite variety and beauty of form, and unrivalled in the growth andmagnitude of the trees composing them, they are of all shapes--circular,parallelograms, hexagons, octagons--some again twisting and winding likedark-green snakes over the brighter surface of the prairie. In no parkor artificially laid-out grounds could anything be found at allequalling these natural shrubberies in beauty and symmetry. In themorning and evening especially, when surrounded by a sort of veil oflight-greyish mist, and with the horizontal beams of the rising orsetting sun gleaming through them, they offer pictures which it isimpossible to weary of admiring.Mr Neal was a jovial Kentuckian, and he received us with the greatesthospitality, only asking in return all the news we could give him fromthe States. It is difficult to imagine, without having witnessed it, thefeverish eagerness and curiosity with which all intelligence from theirnative country is sought after and listened to by these dwellers in thedesert. Men, women, and children crowded round us; and though we hadarrived in the afternoon, it was near sunrise before we could escapefrom the inquiries by which we were overwhelmed, and retire to the bedsthat had been prepared for us.I had not slept very long when I was roused by our worthy host. He wasgoing out to catch twenty or thirty oxen, wanted for the market at NewOrleans. As the kind of chase which takes place after these animalsis very interesting, and rarely dangerous, we willingly accepted theinvitation to accompany him; and having dressed and breakfasted in allhaste, got upon our mustangs and rode off into the prairie.The party was half-a-dozen strong, consisting of Mr Neal, my friend andmyself, and three negroes. What we had to do was to drive the cattle,which were grazing on the prairie in herds of from thirty to fifty head,to the house, and then those selected for the market were to be takenwith the lasso and sent off to Brazoria.After riding four or five miles, we came in sight of a drove; splendidanimals, standing very high, and of most symmetrical form. The horns ofthese cattle are of unusual length, and, in the distance, have more theappearance of stags' antlers than of bulls' horns. We approached theherd to within a quarter of a mile. They remained quite quiet. We roderound them, and in like manner got in rear of a second and third drove,and then spread out, so as to form a half circle and drive the cattletowards the house.Hitherto my mustang had behaved exceedingly well, cantering freelyalong, and not attempting to play any tricks. I had scarcely, however,left the remainder of the party a couple of hundred yards, when thedevil by which he was possessed began to wake up. The mustangs belongingto the plantation were grazing some three quarters of a mile off; and nosooner did my beast catch sight of them, than he commenced practisingevery species of jump and leap that it is possible for a horse toexecute, and many of a nature so extraordinary, that I should havethought no brute that ever went on four legs would have been able toaccomplish them. He shied, reared, pranced, leaped forwards, backwards,and sideways; in short, played such infernal pranks, that, although apractised rider, I found it no easy matter to keep my seat. I heartilyregretted that I had brought no lasso with me, which would have tamedhim at once, and that, contrary to Mr Neal's advice, I had put on myAmerican bit instead of a Mexican one. Without these auxiliaries, all myhorsemanship was useless. The brute galloped like a mad creature somefive hundred yards, caring nothing for my efforts to stop him; and then,finding himself close to the troop of mustangs, he stopped suddenlyshort, threw his head between his fore-legs, and his hind feet into theair, with such vicious violence, that I was pitched clean out of thesaddle. Before I well knew where I was, I had the satisfaction of seeinghim put his fore feet on the bridle, pull bit and bridoon out of hismouth, and then, with a neigh of exultation, spring into the midst ofthe herd of mustangs.I got up out of the long grass in a towering passion. One of the negroeswho was nearest to me came galloping to my assistance, and begged me tolet the beast run for a while, and that when Anthony, the huntsman,came, he would soon catch him. I was too angry to listen to reason, andI ordered him to get off his horse, and let me mount. The black beggedand prayed of me not to ride after the brute; and Mr Neal, who was somedistance off, shouted to me, as loud as he could, for Heaven's sake, tostop; that I did not know what it was to chase a wild horse in a Texanprairie, and that I must not fancy myself in the meadows of Louisiana orFlorida. I paid no attention to all this--I was in too great a rage atthe trick the beast had played me; and, jumping on the negro's horse, Igalloped away like mad.My rebellious steed was grazing quietly with his companions, and heallowed me to come within a couple of hundred paces of him; but just asI had prepared the lasso, which was fastened to the negro's saddle-bow,he gave a start, and galloped off some distance further, I after him.Again he made a pause, and munched a mouthful of grass--then off againfor another half mile. This time I had great hopes of catching him, forhe let me come within a hundred yards; but just as I was creeping up tohim, away he went with one of his shrill neighs. When I galloped fast,he went faster; when I rode slowly, he slackened his pace. At least tentimes did he let me approach him within a couple of hundred yards,without for that being a bit nearer getting hold of him. It wascertainly high time to desist from such a mad chase, but I never dreamedof doing so; and indeed the longer it lasted, the more obstinate I got.I rode on after the beast, who let me come nearer and nearer, and thendarted off again with his loud, laughing neigh. It was this infernalneigh that made me so savage--there was something spiteful andtriumphant in it, as though the animal knew he was making a fool of me,and exulted in so doing. At last, however, I got so sick of myhorse-hunt that I determined to make a last trial, and, if that failed,to turn back. The runaway had stopped near one of the islands of trees,and was grazing quite close to its edge. I thought that, if I were tocreep round to the other side of the island, and then steal across it,through the trees, I should be able to throw the lasso over his head,or, at any rate, to drive him back to the house. This plan I put inexecution: rode round the island, then through it, lasso in hand, and assoftly as if I had been riding over eggs. To my consternation, however,on arriving at the edge of the trees, and at the exact spot where, onlya few minutes before, I had seen the mustang grazing, no signs of himwere to be perceived. I made the circuit of the island, but in vain--theanimal had disappeared. With a hearty curse, I put spurs to my horse,and started off to ride back to the plantation.Neither the plantation, the cattle, nor my companions, were visible, itis true; but this gave me no uneasiness. I felt sure that I knew thedirection in which I had come, and that the island I had just left wasone which was visible from the house, whilst all around me were suchnumerous tracks of horses, that the possibility of my having lost myway never occurred to me, and I rode on quite unconcernedly.After riding for about an hour, I began to find the time rather long. Ilooked at my watch: it was past one o'clock. We had started at nine,and, allowing an hour and a half to have been spent in finding thecattle, I had passed nearly three hours in my wild and unsuccessfulhunt. I began to think I must have got further from the plantation thanI had as yet supposed.It was towards the end of March, the day clear and warm, just like aMay-day in the Southern States. The sun now shone brightly out, but theearly part of the morning had been somewhat foggy; and as I had onlyarrived at the plantation the day before, and had passed the wholeafternoon and evening indoors, I had had no opportunity of gettingacquainted with the bearings of the house. This reflection made merather uneasy, particularly when I remembered the entreaties of thenegro, and the loud exhortations Mr Neal addressed to me as I rode away.I said to myself, however, that I could not be more than ten or fifteenmiles from the plantation, that I should soon come in sight of the herdsof cattle, and that then there would be no difficulty in finding my way.But when I had ridden another hour without seeing the smallest signeither of man or beast, I got seriously uneasy. In my impatience, Iabused poor Neal for not sending somebody to find me. His huntsman, Ihad heard, was gone to Anahuac, and would not be back for two or threedays; but he might have sent a couple of his lazy negroes: or, if he hadonly fired a shot or two as a signal. I stopped and listened, in hopesof hearing the crack of a rifle. But the deepest stillness reignedaround, scarcely the chirp of a bird was heard--all nature seemed to betaking the siesta. As far as the eye could reach was a waving sea ofgrass, here and there an island of trees, but not a trace of a humanbeing. At last I thought I had made a discovery. The nearest clump oftrees was undoubtedly the same which I had admired and pointed out tomy companions soon after we left the house. It bore a fantasticalresemblance to a snake coiled up and about to dart upon its prey. Aboutsix or seven miles from the plantation we had passed it on our righthand, and if I now kept it upon my left, I could not fail to be going ina proper direction. So said, so done. I trotted on most perseveringlytowards the point of the horizon where I felt certain the house mustlie. One hour passed, then a second, then a third: every now and then Istopped and listened, but nothing was audible--not a shot nor a shout.But although I heard nothing, I saw something which gave me no greatpleasure. In the direction in which we had ridden out, the grass wasvery abundant and the flowers scarce; whereas the part of the prairiein which I now found myself presented the appearance of a perfectflower-garden, with scarcely a square foot of green to be seen. The mostvariegated carpet of flowers I ever beheld lay unrolled before me; red,yellow, violet, blue--every colour, every tint was there; millions ofmagnificent prairie roses, tuberoses, asters, dahlias, and fifty otherkinds of flowers. The finest artificial garden in the world sinksinto insignificance when compared with this parterre of nature's ownplanting. My horse could hardly make his way through the wilderness offlowers, and I for a time remained lost in admiration of this scene ofextraordinary beauty. The prairie in the distance looked as if clothedwith rainbows, that waved to and fro over its surface.But the difficulties and anxieties of my situation soon banished allother thoughts, and I rode on with complete indifference throughscenes which, under other circumstances, would have captivated myentire attention. All the stories I had heard of mishaps in theseendless prairies, recurred in vivid colouring to my memory--not merebackwoodsmen's legends, but facts well authenticated by persons ofundoubted veracity, who had warned me, before I came to Texas, againstventuring without guide or compass into these dangerous wilds. Even menwho had been long in the country were often known to lose themselves,and to wander for days and weeks over these oceans of grass, where nohill or variety of surface offers a landmark to the traveller. In summerand autumn, such a position would have one danger the less--that is tosay, there would be no risk of dying of hunger; for at those seasons themost delicious fruits--grapes, plums, peaches, and others--are to befound in abundance. But we were now in early spring, and although I sawnumbers of peach and plum-trees, they were only in blossom. Of game alsothere was plenty, both fur and feather; but I had no gun, and nothingappeared more probable than that I should be starved, althoughsurrounded by food, and in one of the most fruitful countries in theworld. This thought flashed suddenly across me, and for a moment myheart sank within me as I first perceived the real danger of myposition.After a time, however, other ideas came to console me. I had beenalready four weeks in the country, and had ridden over a large slice ofit in every direction, always through prairies, and I had never had anydifficulty in finding my way. True, but then I had always had a compass,and been in company. It was this sort of over-confidence and feelingof security that had made me adventure so rashly, and in spite of allwarning, in pursuit of the mustang. I had not waited to reflect, that alittle more than four weeks' experience was necessary to make oneacquainted with the bearings of a district three times as big as NewYork State. Still I thought it impossible that I should have got sofar out of the right track as not to be able to find the house beforenightfall, although that was now rapidly approaching. Indeed, thefirst shades of evening, strange as it may seem, gave this persuasionincreased strength. Home-bred and gently nurtured as I was, my life,before coming to Texas, had been by no means one of adventure, and I wasso used to sleep with a roof over my head, that when I saw it gettingdusk I felt certain I could not be far from the house. The idea fixeditself so strongly in my mind, that I involuntarily spurred my mustang,and trotted on, peering out through the now fast-gathering gloom, inexpectation of seeing a light. Several times I fancied I heard thebarking of the dogs, the cattle lowing, or the merry laugh of thechildren."Hurrah! there is the house at last--I see the lights in the parlourwindows."I urged my horse on, but when I came near the house, it proved to be anisland of trees. What I had taken for candles were fire-flies, that nowissued in swarms from out of the darkness of the islands, and spreadthemselves over the prairie, darting about in every direction, theirsmall blue flames literally lighting up the plain, and making it appearas if I were surrounded by a sea of Bengal fire. Nothing could be morebewildering than such a ride as mine, on a warm March night, throughthe interminable, never-varying prairie; overhead the deep bluefirmament, with its hosts of bright stars; at my feet, and all around,an ocean of magical light, myriads of fire-flies floating upon the softstill air. It was like a scene of enchantment. I could distinguish everyblade of grass, every flower, every leaf on the trees--but all in astrange unnatural sort of light, and in altered colours. Tuberoses andasters, prairie roses and geraniums, dahlias and vine branches, beganto wave and move, to range themselves in ranks and rows. The wholevegetable world around me appeared to dance, as the swarms of livinglights passed over it.Suddenly, from out of the sea of fire, sounded a loud and long-drawnnote. I stopped, listened, and gazed around me. It was not repeated, andI rode on. Again the same sound, but this time the cadence was sad andplaintive. Again I made a halt, and listened. It was repeated a thirdtime in a yet more melancholy tone, and I recognised it as the cry of awhip-poor-will. Presently it was answered from a neighbouring island bya katydid. My heart leaped for joy at hearing the note of this bird, thenative minstrel of my own dear Maryland. In an instant the house where Iwas born stood before the eyesight of my imagination. There were thenegro huts, the garden, the plantation, everything exactly as I hadleft it. So powerful was the illusion, that I gave my horse the spur,persuaded that my father's house lay before me. The island, too, I tookfor the grove that surrounded our house. On reaching its border, Iliterally dismounted, and shouted out for Charon Tommy. There was astream running through our plantation, which, for nine months out of thetwelve, was passable only by means of a ferry, and the old negro whoofficiated as ferryman was indebted to me for the above classicalcognomen. I believe I called twice, nay, three times--but no CharonTommy answered; and I awoke as from a pleasant dream, somewhat ashamedof the lengths to which my excited imagination had hurried me.I now felt so weary and exhausted, so hungry and thirsty, and, withal,my mind was so anxious and harassed by my dangerous position, and by theuncertainty how I should get out of it, that I was really incapable ofgoing any further. I felt quite bewildered, and stood for some timegazing before me, and scarcely even troubling myself to think. At lengthI mechanically drew my clasp-knife from my pocket, and set to work todig a hole in the rich black soil of the prairie. Into this hole I putthe knotted end of my lasso, and then, filling in the earth and stampingit down with my foot, as I had seen others do since I had been in Texas,I passed the noose over my mustang's neck, and left him to graze,whilst I myself lay down outside the circle which the lasso would allowhim to describe. An odd manner, it may seem, of tying up a horse; butthe most convenient and natural one in a country where one may oftenfind oneself fifty miles from any house, and five-and-twenty from a treeor bush.I found it no easy matter to sleep, for on all sides I heard the howlingof wolves and jaguars--an unpleasant serenade at any time, but most ofall so in the prairie, unarmed and defenceless as I was. My nerves, too,were all in commotion; and I felt so feverish that I do not know what Ishould have done, had I not fortunately remembered that I had mycigar-case and a roll of tobacco, real Virginia _dulcissimus_, in mypocket--invaluable treasures in my present situation, and which on this,as on many other occasions, did not fail to soothe and calm my agitatedthoughts.Luckily, too, being a tolerably confirmed smoker, I carried a flint andsteel with me; for otherwise, although surrounded by lights, I shouldhave been sadly at a loss for fire. A couple of havannahs did me aninfinite deal of good, and after a while I sank into the slumber ofwhich I stood so much in need.The day was hardly well broken when I awoke. The refreshing sleep I hadenjoyed had given me new energy and courage. I felt hungry enough, tobe sure, but light and cheerful, and I hastened to dig up the end ofthe lasso, and to saddle my horse. I trusted that, although I had beencondemned to wander over the prairie the whole of the preceding day, asa sort of punishment for my rashness, I should now have better luck,and, having expiated my fault, be at length allowed to find my way. Withthis hope I mounted my mustang and resumed my ride.I passed several beautiful islands of pecan, plum, and peach trees. Itis a peculiarity worthy of remark, that these islands are nearly alwaysof one sort of tree. It is very rare to meet with one where there aretwo sorts. Like the beasts of the forest, that herd together accordingto their kind, so does this wild vegetation preserve itself distinct inits different species. One island will be entirely composed of liveoaks, another of plum, and a third of pecan trees; the vine only, commonto them all, embraces them all alike with its slender but tenaciousbranches. I rode through several of these islands. They were perfectlyfree from bushes and brushwood, and carpeted with the most beautifulverdure possible to behold. I gazed at them in astonishment. It seemedincredible that nature, abandoned to herself, should preserve herself sobeautifully clean and pure, and I involuntarily looked around me forsome trace of the hand of man. But none was there. I saw nothing butherds of deer, that gazed wonderingly at me with their large cleareyes, and when I approached too near, galloped off in alarm. What wouldI not have given for an ounce of lead, a charge of powder, and aKentucky rifle! Nevertheless, the mere sight of the beasts gladdened me,and raised my spirits. They were a sort of society. Something of thesame feeling seemed imparted to my horse, who bounded under me, andneighed merrily, as he cantered along in the fresh spring morning.I was now skirting the side of an island of trees of greater extent thanmost of those I had hitherto seen. On reaching the end of it, I suddenlycame in sight of an object whose extraordinary appearance far surpassedany of the natural wonders I had as yet beheld, either in Texas or theUnited States.At the distance of about two miles rose a colossal mass, in shapesomewhat like a monumental mound or tumulus, and apparently of thebrightest silver. As I came in view of it, the sun was just covered by apassing cloud, from the lower edge of which the bright rays shot downobliquely upon this extraordinary phenomenon, lighting it up in the mostbrilliant manner. At one moment it looked like a huge silver cone; thentook the appearance of an illuminated castle with pinnacles and towers,or the dome of some great cathedral; then of a gigantic elephant,covered with trappings, but always of solid silver, and indescribablymagnificent. Had all the treasures of the earth been offered me to saywhat it was, I should have been unable to answer. Bewildered by myinterminable wanderings in the prairie, and weakened by fatigue andhunger, a superstitious feeling for a moment came over me, and I halfasked myself whether I had not reached some enchanted region, into whichthe evil spirit of the prairie was luring me to destruction byappearances of supernatural strangeness and beauty.Banishing these wild imaginings, I rode on in the direction of thisstrange object; but it was only when I came within a very short distancethat I was able to distinguish its nature. It was a live oak of moststupendous dimensions, the very patriarch of the prairie, grown grey inthe lapse of ages. Its lower limbs had shot out in a horizontal, orrather a downward-slanting direction, and, reaching nearly to theground, completed the base of a vast dome, several hundred feet indiameter, and full a hundred and thirty feet high. It had no appearanceof a tree, for neither trunk nor branches were visible. It seemed amountain of whitish-green scales, fringed with long silvery moss, thathung like innumerable beards from every bough and twig. Nothing couldbetter convey the idea of immense and incalculable age than the hoarybeard and venerable appearance of this monarch of the woods. Spanishmoss of a silvery grey draped the whole mass of wood and foliage, fromthe topmost bough down to the very ground; short near the top of thetree, but gradually increasing in length as it descended, until it hunglike a deep fringe from the lower branches. I separated the vegetablecurtain with my hands, and entered this august temple with feelings ofinvoluntary awe. The change from the bright sunlight to the comparativedarkness beneath the leafy vault was so great, that I at first coulddistinguish scarcely anything. But when my eyes got accustomed to thegloom, nothing could be more beautiful than the effect of the sun'srays, which, in forcing their way through the silvered leaves andmosses, took as many varieties of colour as if they had passed through awindow of painted glass, and gave the rich, subdued, and solemn lightobservable in old cathedrals.The trunk of the tree rose, free from all branches, full forty feet fromthe ground, rough and knotted, and of such enormous size that it mighthave been taken for a mass of rock covered with moss and lichens, whilstmany of its boughs were nearly as thick as the trunk of any tree I hadever previously seen.I was so absorbed in the contemplation of the vegetable giant, that fora short space I almost forgot my troubles; but as I rode away from thetree they returned to me in full force, and my reflections werecertainly of no very cheering or consolatory nature. I rode on, however,most perseveringly. The morning slipped away; it was noon, the sun stoodhigh in the cloudless heavens. My hunger had now increased to aninsupportable degree, and I felt as if something were gnawing withinme--something like a crab tugging and riving at my stomach with hissharp claws. This feeling left me after a time, and was replaced by asort of squeamishness, a faint sickly sensation. But if hunger was bad,thirst was worse. For some hours I suffered martyrdom. At length, likethe hunger, it died away, and was succeeded by a feeling of sickness.The thirty hours' fatigue and fasting I had endured were beginning totell upon my naturally strong nerves: I felt my reasoning powers growingweaker, and my presence of mind leaving me. A feeling of despondencycame over me--a thousand wild fancies passed through my bewilderedbrain; whilst at times my head grew dizzy, and I reeled in my saddlelike a drunken man. These weak fits, as I may call them, did not lastlong; and each time that I recovered I spurred my mustang onwards. Butall was in vain--ride as far and as fast as I would, nothing was visiblebut a boundless sea of grass.At length I gave up hope, except in that God whose almighty hand was somanifest in the beauteous works around me. I let the bridle fall on myhorse's neck, clasped my hands together, and prayed as I had neverbefore prayed, so heartily and earnestly. When I had finished my prayerI felt greatly comforted. It seemed to me, that here in the wilderness,which man had not as yet polluted, I was nearer to God, and that mypetition would assuredly be heard. I gazed cheerfully around, persuadedthat I should yet escape the peril in which I stood. Just then, withwhat astonishment and inexpressible delight did I perceive, not tenpaces off, the track of a horse!The effect of this discovery was like an electric shock, and drew a cryof joy from my lips that made my mustang start and prick his ears. Tearsof delight and gratitude to Heaven came into my eyes, and I couldscarcely refrain from leaping off my horse and kissing the welcome signsthat gave me assurance of succour. With renewed strength I gallopedonwards; and had I been a lover flying to rescue his mistress from anIndian war-party, I could not have displayed more eagerness than I didin following up the trail of an unknown traveller.Never had I felt so thankful to Providence as at that moment. I utteredthanksgivings as I rode on, and contemplated the wonderful evidences ofHis skill and might that offered themselves to me on all sides. Theaspect of everything seemed changed, and I gazed with renewed admirationat the scenes through which I passed, and which I had previously beentoo preoccupied by the danger of my position to notice. The beautifulappearance of the islands struck me particularly, as they loomed in thedistance, swimming in the bright golden beams of the noonday sun, darkspots of foliage in the midst of the waving grasses and many-huedflowers of the prairie. Before me lay the eternal flower-carpet, withits innumerable asters, tuberoses, and mimosas--that delicate plantwhich, when approached, lifts its head, seems to look at you, and thendroops and shrinks back in alarm. This I saw it do when I was two orthree paces from it, and without my horse's foot having touched it. Itslong roots stretch out horizontally in the ground, and the approachingtread of a horse or man is communicated through them to the plant, andproduces this singular phenomenon. When the danger is gone by, and theearth ceases to vibrate, the mimosa may be seen again to raise its head,quivering and trembling, as though not yet fully recovered from itsfears.I had ridden on for three or four hours, following the track I had sofortunately discovered, when I came upon the trace of a second horseman,who appeared to have here joined the first traveller. It ran in aparallel direction to the one I was following.Had it been possible to increase my joy, this discovery would have doneso. I could now entertain no doubt that I had hit upon the way out ofthis terrible prairie. It struck me as rather singular that twotravellers should have met in this immense plain, which so few personstraversed; but that they had done so was certain, for there were thetracks of the two horses, as distinct as possible. The trail was fresh,too, and it was evidently not long since the horsemen had passed. Itmight still be possible to overtake them; and in this hope I rode onfaster than ever--as fast, at least, as my mustang could carry methrough the thick grass and flowers, which in some places were four orfive feet high.During the next three hours I passed over ten or twelve miles of ground;but although the trail still lay plainly and broadly marked before me, Isaw nothing of those who had left it. Still I persevered. I mustovertake them sooner or later, provided I did not lose the track; andthat I was most careful not to do, keeping my eyes fixed upon the groundas I rode along, and never deviating from the line which the travellershad followed.Thus the day passed away, and evening approached. I still retained hopeand courage; but my physical strength was giving way. The gnawingsensation of hunger increased. I felt sick and faint; my limbs wereheavy, my blood seemed chill in my veins, and all my senses grew dullerunder the influence of exhaustion, thirst, and hunger. My eyesight wasmisty, my hearing less acute, the bridle felt cold and heavy in myfingers.Still I rode on. Sooner or later I must find an outlet; the prairie musthave an end somewhere. True, that the whole of Southern Texas is onevast prairie; but then there are rivers flowing through it, and if Icould reach one of those, I should not be far from the abodes of men. Byfollowing the streams five or six miles up or down, I should be sure tofind a plantation.Whilst thus reasoning with and encouraging myself, I perceived thetraces of a third horse, running parallel to the two which I had so longfollowed. This was indeed encouragement. It was certain that threetravellers, arriving from different points of the prairie, and all goingin the same direction, must have some object, must be repairing to somevillage or clearing; and where or what this was had now becomeindifferent to me, so long as I once more found myself in thehabitations of men. I spurred on my mustang, who began to flag a littlein his pace with the fatigue of our long ride.The sun set behind the high trees of an island that bounded my viewwestward, and there being little or no twilight in those southerlylatitudes, the broad day was almost instantaneously replaced by thedarkness of night. I could proceed no further without losing the trackof the three horsemen; and as I happened to be close to an island, Ifastened my mustang to a branch with the lasso, and threw myself on thegrass under the trees.This night, however, I had no fancy for tobacco. Neither the cigars northe _dulcissimus_ tempted me. I tried to sleep, but in vain. Once ortwice I began to doze, but was roused again by violent cramps andtwitchings in all my limbs. I know of nothing more horrible than a nightpassed as I passed that one--faint and weak, enduring torture fromhunger and thirst, striving after sleep, and never finding it. Thesensation of hunger I experienced can only be compared to that of twentypairs of pincers tearing at the stomach.With the first grey light of morning I got up and prepared fordeparture. It was a long business, however, to get my horse ready. Thesaddle, which at other times I could throw upon his back with twofingers, now seemed of lead, and it was as much as I could do to liftit. I had still more difficulty in drawing the girths tight; but at lastI accomplished this, and, scrambling upon my beast, rode off. Luckily mymustang's spirit was pretty well taken out of him by the last two days'work; for if he had been fresh, the smallest spring on one side wouldhave sufficed to throw me out of the saddle. As it was, I sat upon himlike an automaton, hanging forward over his neck, sometimes grasping themane, and almost unable to use either rein or spur.I had ridden on for some hours in this helpless plight, when I cameto a place where the three horsemen whose track I was following hadapparently made a halt--perhaps had passed the previous night. The grasswas trampled and beaten down in a circumference of some fifty or sixtyfeet, and there was a confusion in the horse-tracks as if they hadridden backwards and forwards. Fearful of losing the right trail, I waslooking carefully about me to see in what direction they had recommencedtheir journey, when I noticed something white amongst the long grass.I got off my horse to pick it up. It was a piece of paper with my ownname written upon it; and I recognised it as the back of a letter inwhich my tobacco had been wrapped, and which I had thrown away at myhalting-place of the preceding night. I looked around, and recognisedthe island and the very tree under which I had slept or endeavoured tosleep. The horrible truth instantly flashed across me--the horse-tracksI had followed were my own: since the preceding morning, I had beenriding _in a circle_!I stood for a few seconds thunderstruck by this discovery, and then sankupon the ground in utter despair. At that moment I should have beenthankful to any one who would have knocked me on the head as I lay. AllI wished for was to die as speedily as possible.I remained I know not how long in a desponding, half-insensible stateupon the grass. Several hours must have elapsed; for when I got up, thesun was low in the western heavens. My head was so weak and wanderingthat I could not well explain to myself how it was that I had been thusriding after my own shadow. Yet the thing was clear enough. Withoutlandmarks, and in the monotonous scenery of the prairie, I might havegone on for ever following my horse's track, and going back when Ithought I was going forwards, had it not been for the discovery of thetobacco-paper. I was, as I subsequently learned, in the Jacinto prairie,one of the most beautiful in Texas, full sixty miles long and broad,but in which the most experienced hunters never risked themselveswithout a compass. It was little wonder, then, that I, a mere boy oftwo-and-twenty, just escaped from college, should have gone astray init.I now gave myself up for lost, and with the bridle twisted round myhand, and holding on as well as I could by the saddle and mane, I let myhorse choose his own road. It would perhaps have been better had I donethis sooner: the beast's instinct would probably have led him to someplantation. When he found himself left to his own guidance, he threw uphis head, snuffed the air three or four times, and then, turning round,set off in a contrary direction to that he was before following, and atsuch a brisk pace that it was as much as I could do to keep upon him.Every jolt caused me so much pain, that I was more than once tempted tolet myself fall off his back.At last night came, and, thanks to the lasso, which kept my horse inawe, I managed to dismount and secure him. The whole night through Isuffered from racking pains in head, limbs, and body. I felt as if I hadbeen broken on the wheel; not an inch of my whole person but ached andsmarted. My hands were grown thin and transparent, my cheeks fallen in,my eyes deep sunk in their sockets. When I touched my face, I could feelthe change that had taken place; and as I did so, I caught myself onceor twice laughing like a child. I was becoming delirious.In the morning I could scarcely rise from the ground, so utterlyweakened and exhausted was I by my three days' fasting, anxiety, andfatigue. I have heard say that a man in good health can live nine dayswithout food. It may be so in a room, or in a prison, but assuredly notin a Texan prairie. I am quite certain that the fifth day would haveseen the last of me.I should never have been able to mount my mustang, but he hadfortunately lain down, so I got into the saddle, and he rose up withme and started off of his own accord. As I rode along, the strangestvisions passed before me. I saw the most beautiful cities that painter'sfancy ever conceived, with towers, cupolas, and columns, whose summitslost themselves in the clouds; marble basins and fountains of brightsparkling water, rivers flowing with liquid gold and silver, and gardenswhose trees were bowed down with magnificent fruit--fruit which I hadnot strength to raise my hand and pluck. My limbs were heavy as lead, mytongue, lips, and gums, dry and parched. I breathed with the greatestdifficulty, and within me was a burning sensation, as if I had swallowedhot coals; whilst my extremities, both hands and feet, did not appear toform a part of myself, but to be instruments of torture affixed to me,and causing me the most intense suffering.I have a confused recollection of a sort of rushing sound, the nature ofwhich I was unable to determine, so nearly had all consciousness leftme; then of finding myself amongst trees, the leaves and boughs of whichscratched and beat against my face as I passed through them; then of asudden and rapid descent, with the broad bright surface of a river belowme. I clutched at a branch, but my fingers lacked strength to retaintheir grasp--there was a hissing, splashing noise, and the watersclosed above my head.I soon rose, and endeavoured to strike out with my arms and legs, butin vain; I was too weak to swim, and again I went down. A thousandlights danced before my eyes; there was a noise in my brain as if afour-and-twenty pounder had been fired close to my ear. Just then a hardhand was wrung into my neckcloth, and I felt myself dragged out of thewater. The next instant my senses left me.CHAPTER II.LYNCH LAW.When I recovered from my state of insensibility, and once more opened myeyes, I was lying on the bank of a small but deep river. My horse grazedquietly a few yards off, and beside me stood a man with folded arms,holding a wicker-covered flask in his hand. This was all I was able toobserve; for my state of weakness prevented me from getting up andlooking around me."Where am I?" I gasped."Where are you, stranger? By the Jacinto; and that you are _by_ it, andnot _in_ it, is no fault of your'n, I reckon."There was something harsh and repulsive in the tone and manner in whichthese words were spoken, and in the grating, scornful laugh whichaccompanied them, that jarred upon my nerves, and inspired me with afeeling of aversion towards the speaker. I knew he was my deliverer;that he had saved my life when my mustang, raging with thirst, hadsprung head-foremost into the water; that, without him, I mustinevitably have been drowned, even had the river been less deep than itwas; and that it was by his care, and the whisky he had made me swallow,and of which I still had the flavour on my tongue, that I had beenrecovered from my death-like swoon. But had he done ten times as muchfor me, I could not have repressed the feeling of repugnance, theinexplicable dislike, with which the mere tones of his voice filled me.I turned my head away in order not to see him. There was a silence ofsome moments' duration."Don't seem as if my company was over and above agreeable," said the manat last."Your company not agreeable? This is the fourth day since I saw the faceof a human being. During that time not a bit nor a drop has passed mytongue.""Hallo! That's a lie!" shouted the man, with another strange, wildlaugh. "You've taken a mouthful out of my flask; not _taken_ it,certainly, but it went over your tongue all the same. Where do you comefrom? The beast ain't your'n.""Mr Neal's," answered I."See it is by the brand. But what brings you here from Mr Neal's? It'sa good seventy mile to his plantation, right across the prairie. Ain'tstole the horse, have you?""Lost my way--four days--eaten nothing."These words were all I could articulate. I was too weak to talk."Four days without eatin'!" cried the man, with a laugh like thesharpening of a saw, "and that in a Texas prairie, and with islands onall sides of you! Ha! I see how it is. You're a gentleman--that's plainenough. I was a sort of one myself once. You thought our Texas prairieswas like the prairies in the States. Ha, ha! And so you didn't know howto help yourself. Did you see no bees in the air, no strawberries on theairth?""Bees? Strawberries?" repeated I."Yes, bees, which live in the hollow trees. Out of twenty trees there'ssure to be one full of honey. So you saw no bees, eh? Perhaps you don'tknow the creturs when you see 'em? Ain't altogether so big as wild-geeseor turkeys. But you must know what strawberries are, and that they don'tgrow upon the trees."All this was spoken in the same sneering, savage manner as before, withthe speaker's head half turned over his shoulder, while his featureswere distorted into a contemptuous grin."And if I had seen the bees, how was I to get at the honey without anaxe?""How did you lose yourself?""My mustang--ran away--""I see. And you after him. You'd have done better to let him run. Butwhat d'ye mean to do now?""I am weak--sick to death. I wish to get to the nearest house--aninn--anywhere where men are.""Where men are," repeated the stranger, with his scornful smile. "Wheremen are," he muttered again, taking a few steps on one side.I was hardly able to turn my head, but there was something strange inthe man's movement that alarmed me; and, making a violent effort, Ichanged my position sufficiently to get him in sight again. He had drawna long knife from his girdle, which he clutched in one hand, whilst heran the forefinger of the other along its edge. I now for the first timegot a full view of his face, and the impression it made upon me wasanything but favourable. His countenance was the wildest I had everseen; his blood-shot eyes rolled like balls of fire in their sockets;his movements and manner were indicative of a violent inward struggle.He did not stand still for three seconds together, but paced backwardsand forwards with hurried, irregular steps, casting wild glances overhis shoulder, his fingers playing all the while with the knife, withthe rapid and objectless movements of a maniac.I felt convinced that I was the cause of the struggle visibly going onwithin him--that my life or death was what he was deciding upon. But,in the state I then was, death had no terrors for me. The image of mymother, sisters, and father, passed before my eyes. I gave one thoughtto my peaceful, happy home, and then looked upwards and prayed.The man had walked off to some distance. I turned myself a littlemore round, and, as I did so, I caught sight of the same magnificentphenomenon which I had met with on the second day of my wanderings. Thecolossal live oak rose in all its silvery splendour, at the distanceof a couple of miles. Whilst I was gazing at it, and reflecting on thestrange ill-luck that had made me pass within so short a distance ofthe river without finding it, I saw my new acquaintance approach aneighbouring cluster of trees, amongst which he disappeared.After a short time I again perceived him coming towards me with a slowand staggering step. As he drew near, I had an opportunity of examininghis whole appearance. He was very tall and lean, but large-boned, andapparently of great strength. His face, which had not been shaved forseveral weeks, was so tanned by sun and weather, that he might havebeen taken for an Indian, had not the beard proved his claim to whiteblood. But his eyes were what most struck me. There was something sofrightfully wild in their expression, a look of terror and desperation,like that of a man whom all the furies of hell were hunting andpersecuting. His hair hung in long ragged locks over his forehead,cheeks, and neck, and round his head was bound a handkerchief, on whichwere several stains of a brownish-black colour. Spots of the same kindwere visible upon his leathern jacket, breeches, and mocassins; theywere evidently blood stains. His hunting-knife, which was nearly twofeet long, with a rude wooden handle, was now replaced in his girdle,but in its stead he grasped a Kentucky rifle.Although I did my utmost to assume an indifferent countenance, myfeatures doubtless expressed something of the repugnance and horror withwhich the man inspired me. He looked loweringly at me for a moment fromunder his shaggy eyebrows."You don't seem to like the company you've got into," said he. "Do Ilook so very desperate, then? Is it written so plainly on my face?""What should there be written upon your face?""What? What? Them questions are for fools and children.""I will ask you none; but as a Christian, as a countryman, I beseechyou----""Christian?" interrupted he, with a hollow laugh. "Countryman!" Hestruck the butt of his rifle hard upon the ground. "That is mycountryman--my only friend!" he continued, as he examined the flintand lock of his weapon. "That releases from all troubles: that's atrue friend. Pooh! perhaps it'll release you too--put you to rest."These last words were uttered aside, and musingly."Put him to rest, as well as----. Pooh! One more or less--Perhaps itwould drive away that cursed spectre."All this seemed to be spoken to his rifle."Will you swear not to betray me?" cried he to me. "Else, one touch----"As he spoke, he brought the gun to his shoulder, the muzzle pointed fullat my breast.I felt no fear. I am sure my pulse did not give a throb the more forthis menace. So deadly weak and helpless as I lay, it was unnecessaryto shoot me. The slightest blow from the butt of the rifle would havedriven the last faint spark of life out of my exhausted body. I lookedcalmly, indifferently even, into the muzzle of the piece."If you can answer it to your God, to your and my Judge and Creator, doyour will."My words, which from faintness I could scarcely render audible, had,nevertheless, a sudden and startling effect upon the man. He trembledfrom head to foot, let the butt of his gun fall heavily to the ground,and gazed at me with open mouth and staring eyes."This one, too, comes with his God!" muttered he. "God! and your and myCreator--and--Judge."He seemed hardly able to articulate these words, which were uttered bygasps and efforts, as though something had choked him."His and my--Judge"--groaned he again. "Can there be a God, a Creatorand Judge?"As he stood thus muttering to himself, his eyes suddenly became fixed,and his features horribly distorted."Do it not!" cried he, in a shrill tone of horror, that rang through myhead. "It will bring no blessin' with it. I am a dead man! God bemerciful to me! My poor wife! my poor children!"The rifle fell from his hands, and he smote his breast and forehead in aparoxysm of the wildest fury and despair. It was frightful to behold theconscience-stricken wretch, stamping madly about, and casting glances ofterror behind him, as though demons had been hunting him down. The foamflew from his mouth, and I expected each moment to see him fall to theground in a fit of epilepsy. Gradually, however, he grew more tranquil."D'ye see nothin' in my face?" said he in a hoarse whisper, suddenlypausing close to where I lay."What should I see?"He came yet nearer."Look well at me--_through_ me, if you can. D'ye see nothin' now?""I see nothing," replied I."Ah! I understand; you can see nothin'. Ain't in a spyin' humour, Icalkilate. No, no, that you ain't. After four days and nights fastin',one loses the fancy for many things. I've tried it for two days myself.So, you are weak and faint, eh? But I needn't ask that, I reckon. Youlook bad enough. Take another drop of whisky; it'll strengthen you. Butwait till I mix it."As he spoke, he stepped down to the edge of the river, and scooping upthe water in the hollow of his hand, filled up his flask with it. Thenreturning to me, he poured a little into my mouth.Even the bloodthirsty Indian appears less of a savage when engaged in acompassionate act, and the wild desperado I had fallen in with seemedsoftened and humanised by the service he was rendering me. His voicesounded less harsh; his manner was calmer and milder."You wish to go to an inn?""For Heaven's sake, yes. These four days I have tasted nothing but a bitof tobacco.""Can you spare a bit of that?""All I have."I handed him my cigar-case, and the roll of _dulcissimus_. He snatchedthe latter from me, and bit into it with the furious eagerness of awolf."Ah! the right sort this!" muttered he to himself. "Ah, young man, orold man--you're an old man, ain't you? How old are you?""Two-and-twenty."He shook his head doubtingly."Can hardly believe that. But four days in the prairie, and nothin' toeat. Well, it may be so. But, stranger, if I had had this bit of tobaccoonly ten days ago----A bit of tobacco is worth a deal sometimes. Itmight have saved a man's life!"Again he groaned, and his accents were wild and unnatural."I say, stranger!" cried he in a threatening tone. "I say! D'ye seeyonder live oak? D'ye see it? It's the Patriarch, and a finer andmightier one you won't find in the prairies, I reckon. D'ye see it?""I do see it.""Ah! you see it," cried he fiercely. "And what is it to you? What haveyou to do with the Patriarch, or with what lies under it? I reckon youhad best not be too curious that way. If you dare take a step under thattree----" He swore an oath too horrible to be repeated."There's a spectre there," cried he; "a spectre that would fright you todeath. Better keep away.""I will keep away," replied I. "I never thought of going near it. All Iwant is to get to the nearest plantation or inn.""Ah! true, man--the next inn. I'll show you the way to it. I will.""You will save my life by so doing," said I, "and I shall be evergrateful to you as my deliverer.""Deliverer!" repeated he with a wild laugh. "Pooh! If you knew what sortof a deliverer--Pooh! What's the use of savin' a life, when--yet Iwill--I will save yours; perhaps the cursed spectre will leave me then.Will you not? Will you not?" cried he, suddenly changing his scornfulmocking tones to those of entreaty and supplication, and turning hisface in the direction of the live oak. Again his wildness of mannerreturned, and his eyes were fixed as he gazed for some moments at thegigantic tree. Then darting away, he disappeared among the trees, whencehe had fetched his rifle, and presently emerged again, leading a saddledhorse with him. He called to me to mount mine, but seeing that I wasunable even to rise from the ground, he stepped up to me, and with thegreatest ease lifted me into the saddle with one hand, so light had Ibecome during my long fast. Then taking the end of my lasso, he got uponhis own horse and set off, leading my mustang after him.We rode on for some time without exchanging a word. My guide kept up asort of muttered soliloquy; but as I was full ten paces in his rear, Icould distinguish nothing of what he said. At times he would raise hisrifle to his shoulder, then lower it again, and speak to it, sometimescaressingly, sometimes in anger. More than once he turned his head, andcast keen searching glances at me, as though to see whether I werewatching him or not.We had ridden more than an hour, and the strength the whisky had givenme was fast failing, so that I expected each moment to fall from myhorse, when suddenly I caught sight of a kind of rude hedge, and, almostimmediately afterwards, of the wall of a small blockhouse. A faint cryof joy escaped me, and I endeavoured, but in vain, to give my horse thespur. My guide turned round, fixed his wild eyes upon me, and spoke in athreatening tone."You are impatient, man! impatient, I see. You think now, perhaps----""I am dying," was all I could utter. In fact, my senses were leaving mefrom exhaustion, and I really thought my last hour was come."Pooh! dyin'! One don't die so easy. And yet--d----n!--it might betrue."He sprang off his horse, and was just in time to catch me in his arms asI fell from the saddle. A few drops of whisky, however, restored me toconsciousness. My guide replaced me upon my mustang, and after passingthrough a potato ground, a field of Indian corn, and a small grove ofpeach-trees, we found ourselves at the door of the blockhouse.I was so utterly helpless, that my strange companion was obliged to liftme off my horse, and carry me into the dwelling. He set me down upon abench, passive and powerless as an infant. Strange to say, I was neverbetter able to observe all that passed around me, than during the fewhours of physical debility that succeeded my immersion in the Jacinto. Ablow with a reed would have knocked me off my seat, but my mentalfaculties, instead of participating in this weakness, seemed sharpenedto an unusual degree of acuteness.The blockhouse in which we now were was of the poorest possibledescription; a mere log hut consisting of one room, that served askitchen, sitting-room, and bedchamber. The door of rough planks swangheavily upon two hooks, which fitted into iron rings, and formed aclumsy substitute for hinges; a wooden latch and heavy bar served tosecure it; windows, properly speaking, there were none, but in theirstead a few holes covered with dirty oiled paper; the floor was of clay,stamped hard and dry in the middle, but out of which, at the sides ofthe room, a crop of rank grass was growing, a foot or more high. Inone corner stood a clumsy bedstead, in another was a sort of bar orcounter, on which were half a dozen drinking glasses of various sizesand patterns. The table consisted of four thick posts, firmly planted inthe ground, and on which were nailed three boards that had apparentlybelonged to some chest or case, for they were partly painted, and therewas a date, and the three first letters of a word upon one of them. Ashelf fixed against the side of the hut supported an earthen pot or two,and three or four bottles, uncorked, and apparently empty; and from somewooden pegs wedged in between the logs, hung suspended a few articles ofwearing apparel of no very cleanly aspect.Pacing up and down the hut with a kind of stealthy cat-like pace, was anindividual, whose unprepossessing exterior was in good keeping with thewretched appearance of this Texan shebeen house. He was an undersized,stooping figure, red-haired and large-mouthed, with small reddish pig'seyes, which he seemed totally unable to raise from the ground, and whoselowering, hang-dog expression corresponded fully with the treacherous,restless, panther-like stealthiness of his step and movements. Withoutgreeting us either by word or look, this personage dived into a darkcorner of the tenement, brought out a full bottle, and, placing it andglasses upon the table, resumed the monotonous exercise in which he hadbeen indulging on our entrance.My guide and deliverer said nothing whilst the tavern-keeper was gettingout the bottle, although he watched all his movements with a keen andsuspicious eye. He now filled a large glass of spirits, and tossed itoff at a single draught. When he had done this, he spoke for the firsttime."Johnny!"Johnny made no answer."This gentleman has eaten nothing for four days.""Indeed," replied Johnny, without looking up, or intermitting hissneaking, restless walk from one corner of the room to the other."I said four days, d'ye hear? Four days. Bring him tea immediately,strong tea, and then make some good beef-soup. I know you have boughtsome tea and rum and sugar. The tea must be ready directly, the soup inan hour at farthest, d'ye understand? And then I want some whisky formyself, and a beefsteak and potatoes. Now, tell all that to your Sambo."Johnny did not seem to hear, but continued his walk, creeping along withnoiseless step, and each time that he turned, giving a sort of springlike a cat or a panther."I've money, Johnny," said my guide. "Money, man, d'ye hear?" And sosaying, he produced a tolerably full purse.For the first time Johnny raised his head, gave an indefinable glance atthe purse, and then, springing forward, fixed his small, cunning eyesupon those of my guide, whilst a smile of strange meaning spread overhis repulsive features.The two men stood for the space of a minute, staring at each other,without uttering a word. An infernal grin distended Johnny's coarsemouth from ear to ear. My guide gasped for breath."I've money," cried he at last, striking the butt of his rifle violentlyon the ground. "D'ye understand, Johnny? Money; and a rifle too, ifneeds be."He stepped to the table and filled another glass of raw spirits, whichdisappeared like the preceding one. Whilst he drank, Johnny stole out ofthe room so softly that my companion was only made aware of hisdeparture by the noise of the wooden latch. He then came up to me, tookme in his arms without saying a word, and carrying me to the bed, laidme gently down upon it."You make yourself at home," snarled Johnny, who just then came inagain."Always do that, I reckon, when I'm in a tavern," answered my guide,quietly pouring out and swallowing another glassful. "The gentlemanshall have your bed to-day. You and your Sambo may sleep in the pigsty.You have none though, I believe?""Bob!" screamed Johnny furiously."That's my name--Bob Rock.""For the present," hissed Johnny, with a sneer."Just as yours is Johnny Down," replied Bob in the same tone. "Pooh!Johnny, guess we know one another?""Rayther calkilate we do," replied Johnny through his teeth."And have done many a day," laughed Bob."You're the famous Bob from Sodoma in Georgia?""Sodoma in Alabama, Johnny. Sodoma lies in Alabama," said Bob, fillinganother glass. "Don't you know that yet, you who were above a year inColumbus, doin' all sorts of dirty work?""Better hold your tongue, Bob," said Johnny, with a dangerous look atme."Pooh! Don't mind him; he won't talk, I'll answer for it. He's lost thetaste for chatterin' in the Jacinto prairie. But Sodoma," continued Bob,"is in Alabama, man! Columbus in Georgia! They are parted by theChatahoochie. Ah! that was a jolly life on the Chatahoochie. But nothin'lasts in this world, as my old schoolmaster used to say. Pooh! They'vedruv the Injuns a step further over the Mississippi now. But it was aglorious life--warn't it?"Again he filled his glass and drank.The information I gathered from this conversation as to the previouslife and habits of these two men, had nothing in it very satisfactory orencouraging for me. In the whole of the south-western States there wasno place that could boast of being the resort of so many outlaws and badcharacters as the town of Sodoma. It is situated, or was situated, atleast, a few years previously to the time I speak of, in Alabama, onIndian ground, and was the harbour of refuge for all the murderers andoutcasts from the western and south-western parts of the Union. There,under Indian government, they found shelter and security; and frightfulwere the crimes and cruelties perpetrated at that place. Scarcely a daypassed without an assassination, not secretly committed, but in broadsunlight. Bands of these wretches, armed with knives and rifles, used tocross the Chatahoochie, and make inroads into Columbus; break intohouses, rob, murder, ill-treat women, and then return in triumph totheir dens, laden with booty, and laughing at the laws. It was uselessto think of pursuing them, or of obtaining justice, for they were onIndian territory; and many of the chiefs were in league with them. Atlength General Jackson and the government took it up. The Indians weredriven over the Mississippi, the outlaws and murderers fled, Sodomaitself disappeared; and, released from its troublesome neighbours,Columbus is now as nourishing a State as any in the west.The recollections of their former life and exploits seemed highlyinteresting to the two comrades; and their communications became moreand more confidential. Johnny filled himself a glass, and theconversation soon increased in animation. I could understand little ofwhat they said, for they spoke a sort of thieves' jargon. After a time,their voices sounded as a confused hum in my ears, the objects in theroom got gradually less distinct, and I fell asleep.I was roused, not very gently, by a mulatto woman, who poured a spoonfulof tea into my mouth before I had well opened my eyes. She at first didnot attend to me with much apparent good-will; but by the time she hadgiven me half-a-dozen spoonsful, her womanly sympathies were awakened,and her manner was kinder. The tea did me an infinite deal of good, andinfused new life into my veins. I finished the cup, and the mulatto laidme down again on my pillow, with far more gentleness than she lifted meup."Gor! Gor!" cried she, "what poor young man! Berry weak. Him soonbetter. One hour, massa, good soup.""Soup! What do you want with soup?" grumbled Johnny."Him take soup. I cook it," screamed the woman."Worse for you if she don't, Johnny," said Bob; "worse for you, I say."Johnny muttered something in reply, but I did not distinguish what itwas, for my eyes closed, and I again fell asleep.It seemed as if I had not been five minutes slumbering when the mulattoreturned with the soup. The tea had revived me, but this gave mestrength; and when I had taken it I was able to sit up in the bed.Whilst the woman fed me, Bob ate his beefsteak. It was a piece of meatthat might have sufficed for six persons, but the man was as hungry asif he had eaten nothing for three days. He cut off wedges half as big ashis fist, swallowed them with ravenous eagerness, and, instead of bread,bit into some unpeeled potatoes. All this was washed down with glassafter glass of raw spirits, which had the effect of wakening him up, andinfusing a certain cheerfulness into his strange humour. He still spokemore to himself than to Johnny, but his recollections seemed agreeable;he nodded self-approvingly, and sometimes laughed aloud. At last hebegan to abuse Johnny for being, as he said, such a sneaking, cowardlyfellow--such a treacherous, false-hearted gallows-bird."It's true," said he, "I am gallows-bird enough myself, but then I'mopen, and no man can say I'm afeard; but Johnny, Johnny, who----"I do not know what he was about to say, for Johnny sprang towards him,and placed both hands over his mouth, receiving in return a blow thatknocked him as far as the door, through which he retreated, cursing andgrumbling.I soon fell asleep again, and whilst in that state I had a confusedconsciousness of various noises in the room, loud words, blows, andshouting. Wearied as I was, however, I believe no noise would have fullyroused me, although hunger at last did.When I opened my eyes I saw the mulatto woman sitting by my bed, andkeeping off the mosquitoes. She brought me the remainder of the soup,and promised, if I would sleep a couple of hours more, to bring me asgood a beefsteak as ever came off a gridiron. Before the two hours hadelapsed I awoke, hungrier than ever. After I had eaten all the beefsteakthe woman would allow me, which was a very moderate quantity, shebrought me a beer-glass full of the most delicious punch I ever tasted.I asked her where she had got the rum and lemons, and she told me thatit was she who had bought them, as well as a stock of coffee and tea;that Johnny was her partner, but that he had done nothing but build thehouse, and badly built it was. She then began to abuse Johnny, and saidhe was a gambler, and worse still; that he had had plenty of money once,but had lost it all; that she had first known him in Lower Natchez, buthe had been obliged to run away from there in the night to save hisneck. Bob was no better, she said; on the contrary--and here she madethe gesture of cutting a man's throat--he was a very bad fellow, sheadded. He had got drunk after his dinner, knocked Johnny down, andbroken everything. He was now lying asleep outside the door; and Johnnyhad hidden himself somewhere.How long she continued speaking I know not, for I again fell into a deepsleep, which this time lasted six or seven hours.I was awakened by a strong grasp laid upon my arm, which made me cryout, more, however, from alarm than pain. Bob stood by my bedside; thetraces of the preceding night's debauch plainly written on his haggardcountenance. His blood-shot eyes were inflamed and swollen, and rolledwith even more than their usual wildness; his mouth was open, andthe jaws were stiff and fixed; he looked like one fresh from theperpetration of some frightful deed. I could fancy the first murdererto have worn such an aspect when gazing on the body of his slaughteredbrother. I shrank back, horror-struck at his appearance."In God's name, man, what do you want?"He made no answer."You are in a fever. You've the ague!""Ay, a fever," groaned he, shivering as he spoke; "a fever, but not theone you mean; a fever, young man, such as God keep you from everhaving."His whole frame shuddered as he uttered these words. There was a shortpause."Curious that," continued he; "I've served more than one in the sameway, but never thought of it afterwards--was forgotten in less than notime. Got to pay the whole score at once, I suppose. Can't rest aminute. In the open prairie it's the worst; there stands the old man, soplain, with his silver beard, and the spectre just behind him."His eyes rolled, he clenched his fists, and striking his foreheadfuriously, rushed out of the hut.In a few minutes he returned, apparently more composed, and walkedstraight up to my bed."Stranger, you must do me a service," said he abruptly."Ten rather than one," replied I; "anything that is in my power. Do Inot owe you my life?""You're a gentleman, I see, and a Christian. You must come with me tothe squire--the Alcalde.""To the Alcalde, man? What must I go there for?""You'll see and hear when you get there; I've something to tellhim--something for his own ear."He drew a deep breath, and remained silent for a short time, gazinganxiously on all sides of him."Something," whispered he, "that nobody else must hear.""But there's Johnny there. Why not take him?""Johnny!" cried he, with a scornful laugh; "Johnny! who's ten timesworse than I am, bad as I be; and bad I am to be sure, but yet open andabove board, always till this time; but Johnny! he'd sell his ownmother. He's a cowardly, sneakin', treacherous hound, is Johnny."It was unnecessary to tell me this, for Johnny's character was writtenplainly enough upon his countenance."But why do you want me to go to the Alcalde?""Why does one want people before the judge? He's a judge, man; a Mexicanone certainly, but chosen by us Americans; and an American himself, asyou and I are.""And how soon must I go?""Directly. I can't bear it any longer. It leaves me no peace. Not anhour's rest have I had for the last eight days. When I go out into theprairie, the spectre stands before me and beckons me on; and if I tryto go another way, he comes behind me and drives me before him underthe Patriarch. I see him just as plainly as when he was alive, onlypaler and sadder. It seems as if I could touch him with my hand.Even the bottle is no use now; neither rum, nor whisky, nor brandy,rid me of him; it don't, by the 'tarnal.--Curious that! I got drunkyesterday--thought to get rid of him; but he came in the night and droveme out. I was obliged to go. Wouldn't let me sleep; was forced to gounder the Patriarch.""Under the Patriarch? the live oak?" cried I, in astonishment. "Were youthere in the night?""Ay, that was I," replied he, in the same horribly confidential tone;"and the spirit threatened me, and said, says he, 'I will leave you nopeace, Bob, till you go to the Alcalde and tell him.'""Then I will go with you to the Alcalde, and that immediately," said I,raising myself up in bed. I could not help pitying the poor fellow frommy very soul."Where are you going?" croaked Johnny, who at this moment glided intothe room. "Not a step shall you stir till you've paid.""Johnny," said Bob, seizing his less powerful companion by theshoulders, lifting him up like a child, and then setting him down againwith such force, that his knees cracked and bent under him;--"Johnny,this gentleman is my guest, d'ye understand? And here is the reckonin',and mind yourself, Johnny--mind yourself, that's all."Johnny crept into a corner like a flogged hound; the mulatto woman,however, did not seem disposed to be so easily intimidated. Stickingher arms in her sides, she waddled boldly forward."You not take him 'way, Massa Bob?" screamed she. "Him stop here. Himberry weak--not able for ride--not able for stand on him foot."This was true enough. Strong as I had felt in bed, I could hardly standupright when I got out of it.For a moment Bob seemed undecided, but only for one moment; then,stepping up to the mulatto, he lifted her, fat and heavy as she was,in the same manner as he had done her partner, at least a foot fromthe ground, and carried her screaming and struggling to the door, whichhe kicked open. Then setting her down outside, "Silence!" roared he,"and some good strong tea instead of your cursed chatter, and a freshbeefsteak instead of your stinking carcass. That will strengthen thegentleman; so be quick about it, you old brown-skinned beast, you!"I had slept in my clothes, and my toilet was consequently soon made, bythe help of a bowl of water and a towel, which Bob made Johnny bring,and then ordered him to go and get our horses ready.A hearty breakfast of tea, butter, Indian-corn bread, and steaks,increased my strength so much, that I was able to mount my mustang. Ihad still pains in all my limbs, but we rode slowly; the morning wasbright, the air fresh and elastic, and I felt myself getting graduallybetter. Our path led through the prairie; the river, fringed with wood,on the one hand, the vast ocean of grass, sprinkled with innumerableislands of trees, on the other. We saw abundance of game, which sprangup under the very feet of our horses; but although Bob had his rifle, hemade no use of it. He muttered continually to himself, and seemed to bearranging what he should say to the judge; for I heard him talking ofthings which I would just as soon not have listened to, if I could havehelped it. I was heartily glad when we at length reached the plantationof the Alcalde.It seemed a very considerable one, and the size and appearance of theframework house bespoke comfort and even luxury. The building wassurrounded by a group of China trees, which I should have thought aboutten years of age, but which I afterwards learned had not been plantedhalf that time, although they were already large enough to afford a veryagreeable shade. Right in front of the house rose a live oak, inferiorin size to the one in the prairie, but still of immense age and greatbeauty. To the left were some two hundred acres of cotton fields,extending to the bank of the Jacinto, which at this spot made a sharpturn, and winding round the plantation, enclosed it on three sides.Before the house lay the prairie, with its archipelago of islands, andherds of grazing cattle and mustangs; to the right, more cotton fields;and in rear of the dwelling, the negro cottages and out-buildings.There was a Sabbath-like stillness pervading the whole scene, whichseemed to strike even Bob. He paused as though in deep thought, andallowed his hand to rest for a moment on the handle of the lattice door.Then with a sudden and resolute jerk, bespeaking an equally energeticresolve, he pushed open the gate, and we entered a garden planted withorange, banana, and citron trees, the path through which was enclosedbetween palisades, and led to a sort of front court, with anotherlattice-work door, beside which hung a bell. Upon ringing this, a negroappeared.The black seemed to know Bob very well, for he nodded to him as to anold acquaintance, and said the squire wanted him, and had asked afterhim several times. He then led the way to a large parlour, veryhandsomely furnished for Texas, and in which we found the squire, ormore properly speaking, the Alcalde, sitting smoking his cigar. He hadjust breakfasted, and the plates and dishes were still upon the table.He did not appear to be much given to compliments or ceremony, or topartake at all of the Yankee failing of curiosity, for he answered oursalutation with a laconic "good-morning," and scarcely even looked atus. At the very first glance, it was easy to see that he came fromTennessee or Virginia, the only provinces in which one finds men of hisgigantic mould. Even sitting, his head rose above those of the negroservants in waiting. Nor was his height alone remarkable; he had thetrue West-Virginian build; the enormous chest and shoulders, andherculean limbs, the massive features and sharp grey eyes; altogether anexterior well calculated to impose on the rough backwoodsmen with whomhe had to deal.I was tired with my ride, and took a chair. The squire apparently didnot deem me worthy of notice, or else reserved me for a later scrutiny;but he fixed a long, searching look upon Bob, who remained standing,with his head sunk on his breast.The judge at last broke silence."So here you are again, Bob. It's long since we've seen you, and Ithought you had clean forgotten us. Well, Bob, we shouldn't have brokeour hearts, I reckon; for I hate gamblers--ay, that I do--worse thanskunks. It's a vile thing is play, and has ruined many a man, both inthis world and the next. It's ruined you too, Bob."Bob said nothing."You'd have been mighty useful here last week; there was plenty for youto do. My step-daughter arrived; but as you weren't to be found, we hadto send to Joel to shoot us a buck and a few dozen snipes. Ah, Bob! onemight still make a good citizen of you, if you'd only leave off thatcursed play!"Bob still remained silent."Now, go into the kitchen and get some breakfast."Bob neither answered nor moved."D'ye hear? Go into the kitchen and get something to eat. And,Ptoly"--added he to the negro--"tell Veny to give him a pint of rum.""Don't want yer rum--ain't thirsty"--growled Bob."Very like, very like," said the judge sharply. "Reckon you've taken toomuch already. Look as if you could swallow a wild cat alive. And you,"added he, turning to me--"Ptoly, what the devil are you at? Don't yousee the man wants his breakfast? Where's the coffee? Or would you ratherhave tea?""Thank you, Alcalde, I have breakfasted already.""Don't look as if. Ain't sick, are you? Where do you come from? What'shappened to you? Ain't got the ague, have you? What are you doing withBob?"He looked keenly and searchingly at me, and then again at Bob. Myappearance was certainly not very prepossessing, unshaven as I was, andwith my clothes and linen soiled and torn. He was evidently consideringwhat could be the motive of our visit, and what had brought me intoBob's society. The result of his physiognomical observations did notappear very favourable either to me or my companion. I hastened toexplain."You shall hear how it was, judge. I am indebted to Bob for my life.""Your life! Indebted to Bob for your life!" repeated the judge, shakinghis head incredulously.I related how I had lost my way in the prairie; had been carried intothe Jacinto by my horse; and how I should inevitably have been drownedbut for Bob's aid."Indeed!" said the judge, when I had done speaking. "So Bob saved yourlife! Is that true, Bob? Well, I am glad of it, Bob--very glad of it.Ah! if you could only keep away from that Johnny. I tell you, Bob,Johnny will be the ruin of you. Better keep out of his way."This was spoken gravely and earnestly, the speaker pausing between thesentences to take a pull at his cigar, and a sup out of his glass."Yes, Bob," he repeated; "only keep away from Johnny!""It's too late," answered Bob."Don't know why it should be. Never too late to leave a debauched,sinful life; never, man!""Calkilate it is, though," replied Bob sullenly."You calculate it is?" said the judge, fixing his eyes on him. "And whydo you calculate that? Take a glass--Ptoly, a glass--and tell me, man,why should it be too late?""I ain't thirsty, squire," said Bob."Don't talk to me of your thirst; rum's not for thirst, but tostrengthen the heart and nerves, to drive away the blue devils. And agood thing it is, taken in moderation."As he spoke he filled himself a glass, and drank half of it off. Bobshook his head."No rum for me, squire. I take no pleasure in it. I've something on mymind too heavy for rum to wash away.""And what is that, Bob? Come, let's hear what you've got to say. Or,perhaps, you'd rather speak to me alone. It's Sunday to-day, and nobusiness ought to be done; but for once, and for you, we'll make anexception.""I brought the gentleman with me on purpose to witness what I had tosay," answered Bob, taking a cigar out of a box that stood on the table.Although the judge had not asked him to take one, he very quietlyoffered him a light. Bob smoked a whiff or two, looked thoughtfully atthe judge, and then threw the cigar through the open window."It don't relish, squire; nothin' does now.""Ah, Bob! if you'd leave off play and drink! They're your ruin; worsethan ague or fever.""It's no use," continued Bob, as if he did not hear the judge's remark;"it must out. I fo't agin it, and thought to drive it away, but it can'tbe done. I've put a bit of lead into several before now, but thisone----""What's that?" cried the judge, chucking his cigar away, and lookingsternly at Bob. "What's up now? What are you saying about a bit of lead?None of your Sodoma and Lower Natchez tricks, I hope? They won't dohere. Don't understand such jokes.""Pooh! they don't understand them a bit more in Natchez. If they did, Ishouldn't be in Texas.""The less said of that the better, Bob. You promised to lead a new lifehere; so we won't rake up old stories.""I did, I did!" groaned Bob; "and I meant it too; but it's all no use. Ishall never be better till I'm hung."I stared at the man in astonishment. The judge, however, took anothercigar, lighted it, and, after puffing out a cloud of smoke, said, veryunconcernedly--"Not better till you're hung! What do you want to be hung for? To besure, you should have been long ago, if the Georgia and Alabama papersdon't lie. But we are not in the States here, but in Texas, underMexican laws. It's nothing to us what you've done yonder. Where there isno accuser there can be no judge.""Send away the nigger, squire," said Bob. "What a free white man has tosay, shouldn't be heard by black ears.""Go away, Ptoly," said the judge. "Now then," added he, turning to Bob,"say what you have to say; but mind, nobody forces you to do it, andit's only out of good-will that I listen to you, for to-day's Sunday.""I know that," muttered Bob; "I know that, squire; but it leaves me nopeace, and it must out. I've been to San Felipe de Austin, to Anahuac,everywhere, but it's all no use. Wherever I go, the spectre follows me,and drives me back under the cursed Patriarch.""Under the Patriarch!" exclaimed the judge."Ay, under the Patriarch!" groaned Bob. "Don't you know thePatriarch--the old live oak near the ford, on the Jacinto?""I know, I know!" answered the judge. "And what drives you under thePatriarch?""What drives me? What drives a man who--who----""A man who----" repeated the judge gently."A man," continued Bob, in the same low tone, "who has sent a riflebullet into another's heart. He lies there, under the Patriarch, whomI----""Whom you?" asked the judge."_Whom I killed!_" said Bob, in a hollow whisper."Killed?" exclaimed the judge. "You killed him? Who?""Ah! who? Why don't you let me speak? You always interrupt me with yourpalaver," growled Bob."You are getting saucy, Bob," said the judge impatiently. "Go on,however. I reckon it's only one of your usual tantrums."Bob shook his head. The judge looked keenly at him for a moment, andthen resumed in a sort of confidential, encouraging tone."Under the Patriarch; and how did he come under the Patriarch?""I dragged him there, and buried him there," replied Bob."Dragged him there! Why did you drag him there?""Because he couldn't go himself, with more than half an ounce of lead inhis body.""And _you_ put the half ounce of lead into him, Bob? Well, if it wasJohnny, you've done the country a service, and saved it a rope."Bob shook his head negatively."It wasn't Johnny, although----But you shall hear all about it. It'sjust ten days since you paid me twenty dollars fifty.""I did so, Bob; twenty dollars fifty cents; and I advised you at thesame time to let the money lie till you had a couple of hundred dollars,or enough to buy a quarter or an eight of Sitio land; but advice isthrown away upon you.""When I got the money, I thought I'd go down to San Felipe, to theMexicans, and try my luck, and, at the same time, see the doctor aboutmy fever. As I was goin' there, I passed near Johnny's house, andfancied a glass, but determined not to get off my horse. I rode up tothe window, and looked in. There was a man sittin' at the table, havin'a hearty good dinner of steaks and potatoes, and washin' it down with astiff glass of grog. I began to feel hungry myself, and while I wasconsiderin' whether I should 'light or not, Johnny came sneakin' out,and whispered to me to come in, that there was a man inside with whomsomethin' might be done if we went the right way to work; a man who hada leather belt round his waist cram-full of hard Jackson; and that, ifwe got out the cards and pretended to play a little together he wouldsoon take the bait and join us."I wasn't much inclined," continued Bob; "but Johnny bothered me so togo in, that I got off my horse. As I did so, the dollars chinked in mypocket, and the sound was like the devil's voice 'ticing me to play."I went in; and Johnny fetched the whisky bottle. One glass followedanother. There were beefsteaks and potatoes too, but I only eat a coupleof mouthfuls. When I had drank two, three, ay, four glasses, Johnnybrought the cards and dice. 'Hallo, Johnny!' says I; 'cards and dice,Johnny! I've twenty dollars fifty in my pocket. Let's have a game! Butno more drink for me; for I know you, Johnny, I know you----'"Johnny larfed slyly, and rattled the dice, and we sat down to play. Ihadn't meant to drink any more, but play makes one thirsty; and withevery glass I got more eager, and my dollars got fewer. I reckoned,however, that the stranger would join us, and that I should be able towin back from him; but not a bit of it: he sat quite quiet, and ate anddrank as if he didn't see we were there. I went on playin' madder thanever, and before half an hour was over, I was cleaned out; my twentydollars fifty gone to the devil, or what's the same thing, into Johnny'spocket."When I found myself without a cent, I _was_ mad, I reckon. It warn'tthe first time, nor the hundredth, that I had lost money. Many biggersums than that--ay, hundreds and thousands of dollars had I playedaway--but they had none of them cost me the hundredth or thousandth partof the trouble to get that these twenty dollars fifty had; two fullmonths had I been slavin' away in the woods and prairies to airn them,and caught the fever there. The fever I had still, but no money to cureit with. Johnny only larfed in my face, and rattled my dollars. I made ahit at him, which, if he hadn't jumped on one side, would have cured himof larfin' for a week or two."Presently, however, he came sneakin' up to me, and winkin' andwhisperin'; and, 'Bob!' says he, 'is it come to that with you? are yougrown so chicken-hearted that you don't see the beltful of money roundhis body?' said he lookin' at it. 'No end of hard coin, I guess; and allto be had for little more than half an ounce of lead.'""Did he say that?" asked the judge."Ay, that did he, but I wouldn't listen to him. I was mad with him forwinning my twenty dollars; and I told him that, if he wanted thestranger's purse, he might take it himself, and be d----d; that I wasn'tgoin' to pull the hot chestnuts out of the fire for him. And I got on myhorse, and rode away like mad."My head spun round like a mill. I couldn't get over my loss. I took thetwenty dollars fifty more to heart than any money I had ever gambled. Ididn't know where to go. I didn't dare go back to you, for I knew youwould scold me.""I shouldn't have scolded you, Bob; or, if I had, it would only havebeen for your good. I should have summoned Johnny before me, calledtogether a jury of twelve of the neighbours, got you back your twentydollars fifty, and sent Johnny out of the country; or, better still, outof the world."These words were spoken with much phlegm, but yet with a degree offeeling and sympathy which greatly improved my opinion of the worthyjudge. Bob also seemed touched. He drew a deep sigh, and gazed at theAlcalde with a melancholy look."It's too late," muttered he; "too late, squire.""Perhaps not," replied the judge; "but let's hear the rest.""Well," continued Bob, "I kept ridin' on at random, and when evenin'came I found myself near the palmetto field on the bank of the Jacinto.As I was ridin' past it, I heard all at once a tramp of a horse. At thatmoment the queerest feelin' I ever had came over me; a sort of coldshiverin' feel. I forgot where I was; sight and hearin' left me; I couldonly see two things, my twenty dollars fifty, and the well-filled beltof the stranger I had left at Johnny's. Just then a voice called to me."'Whence come, countryman, and whither going?' it said."'Whence and whither,' answered I, as surly as could be; 'to the devilat a gallop, and you'd better ride on and tell him I'm comin'.'"'You can do the errand yourself,' answered the stranger, larfin'; 'myroad don't lie that way.'"As he spoke, I looked round, and saw, what I was pretty sure of before,that it was the man with the belt full of money."'Ain't you the stranger I see'd in the inn yonder?' asked he."'And if I am,' says I, 'what's that to you?'"'Nothin',' said he; 'nothin', certainly.'"'Better ride on,' says I, 'and leave me quiet.'"'Will so, stranger; but you needn't take it so mighty onkind. A wordain't a tomahawk, I reckon,' said he. 'But I rayther expect yourlosin's at play ain't put you in a very church-goin' humour; and, if Iwas you, I'd keep my dollars in my pocket, and not set them on cards anddice.'"It riled me to hear him cast my losin's in my teeth that way."'You're a nice feller,' said I, 'to throw a man's losses in his face. Apitiful chap _you_ are,' says I."I thought to provoke him, and that he'd tackle me. But he seemed tohave no fancy for a fight, for he said, quite humble like--"'I throw nothin' in your face; God forbid I should reproach you withyour losses! I'm sorry for you, on the contrary. Don't look like a manwho can afford to lose his dollars. Seem to me one who airns his moneyby hard work.'"We were just then halted at the further end of the cane-brake, close tothe trees that border the Jacinto. I had turned my horse, and wasfrontin' the stranger. And all the time the devil was busy whisperin' tome, and pointin' to the belt round the man's waist. I could see where itwas, plain enough, though he had buttoned his coat over it."'Hard work, indeed,' says I; 'and now I've lost everything; not a centleft for a quid of baccy.'"'If that's all,' says he, 'there's help for that. I don't chew myself,and I ain't a rich man; I've wife and children, and want every cent I'vegot, but it's one's duty to help a countryman. You shall have money fortobacco and a dram.'"And so sayin', he took a purse out of his pocket, in which he carriedhis change. It was pretty full; there may have been some twenty dollarsin it; and as he drew the string, it was as if the devil laughed andnodded to me out of the openin' of the purse."'Halves!' cried I."'No, not that,' says he; 'I've wife and child, and what I have belongsto them; but half a dollar----'"'Halves!' cried I again, 'or else----'"'Or else?' repeated he; and as he spoke, he put the purse back into hispocket, and laid hold of the rifle which was slung on his shoulder."'Don't force me to do you a mischief,' said he. 'Don't,' says he; 'wemight both be sorry for it. What you're thinkin' of brings no blessin'.'"I was past seein' or hearin'. A thousand devils from hell possessed me."'Halves!' I screeched out; and, as I said the word, he sprang out ofthe saddle, and fell back over his horse's crupper to the ground."'I'm a dead man!' cried he, as well as the rattle in his throat wouldlet him. 'God be merciful to me! My poor wife, my poor children!'"Bob paused; he gasped for breath, and the sweat stood in large dropsupon his forehead. He gazed wildly round the room. The judge himselflooked very pale. I tried to rise, but sank back in my chair. Withoutthe table, I believe I should have fallen to the ground.There was a gloomy pause of some moments' duration. At last the judgebroke silence."A hard, hard case!" said he. "Father, mother, children, all at oneblow. Bob, you are a bad fellow; a very bad fellow; a great villain!""A great villain," groaned Bob. "The ball was gone right through hisbreast.""Perhaps your gun went off by accident," said the judge, anxiously."Perhaps it was his own ball."Bob shook his head."I see him now, judge, as plain as can be, when he said, 'Don't force meto do you a mischief; we might both be sorry for it.' But I pulled thetrigger. His bullet is still in his rifle."When I saw him lie dead before me, I can't tell you what I felt. Itwarn't the first I had sent to his account; but yet I would have givenall the purses and money in the world to have had him alive agin. I musthave dragged him under the Patriarch, and dug a grave with myhuntin'-knife, for I found him there afterwards.""You found him there?" repeated the judge."Yes. I don't know how he came there. I must have brought him, but Irecollect nothin' about it."The judge had risen from his chair, and was walking up and down theroom, apparently in deep thought. Suddenly he stopped short."What have you done with his money?""I took his purse, but buried his belt with him, as well as a flask ofrum, and some bread and beef he had brought away from Johnny's. I setout for San Felipe, and rode the whole day. In the evenin', when Ilooked about me, expectin' to see the town, where do you think I was?"The judge and I stared at him."Under the Patriarch. The ghost of the murdered man had driven me there.I had no peace till I'd dug him up and buried him agin. Next day I setoff in another direction. I was out of tobacco, and I started across theprairie to Anahuac. Lord, what a day I passed! Wherever I went, _he_stood before me. If I turned, _he_ turned too. Sometimes he came behindme, and looked over my shoulder. I spurred my mustang till the bloodcame, hopin' to get away from him, but it was all no use. I thought whenI got to Anahuac I should be quit of him, and I galloped on for life ordeath. But in the evenin', instead of being close to the salt-works as Iexpected, there was I agin, under the Patriarch. I dug him up a secondtime, and sat and stared at him, and then buried him agin.""Queer that," observed the judge."Ay, very queer!" said Bob, mournfully. "But it's all no use. Nothin'does me any good. I shan't be better--I shall never have peace till I'mhung."Bob evidently felt relieved now; he had in a manner passed sentence onhimself. Strange as it may appear, I had a similar feeling, and couldnot help nodding my head approvingly. The judge alone preserved anunmoved countenance."Indeed!" said he; "indeed! You think you'll be no better till you'rehung?""Yes," answered Bob, with eager haste. "Hung on the same tree underwhich _he_ lies buried.""Well, if you will have it so, we'll see what can be done for you. We'llcall a jury of the neighbours together to-morrow.""Thank ye, squire," murmured Bob, visibly comforted by this promise."We'll summon a jury," repeated the Alcalde, "and see what can be donefor you. You'll perhaps have changed your mind by that time."I stared at him like one fallen from the clouds, but he did not seem tonotice my surprise."There is, perhaps, some other way to get rid of your life, if you aretired of it," he continued. "We might hit upon one that would satisfyyour conscience."Bob shook his head. I involuntarily made the same movement."At any rate, we'll hear what the neighbours say," added the judge.Bob stepped up to the judge, and held out his hand to bid him farewell.The other did not take it, and turning to me, said, "_You_ had betterstop here, I think."Bob turned round impetuously."The gentleman must come with me.""Why must he?" said the judge."Ask himself."I again explained the obligations I was under to Bob, how we had fallenin with one another, and what care and attention he had shown me atJohnny's.The judge nodded approvingly. "Nevertheless," said he, "you will remainhere, and Bob will go alone. You are in a state of mind, Bob, in which aman is better alone, d'ye see; and so leave the young man here. Anothermisfortune might happen; and, at any rate, he's better here than atJohnny's. Come back to-morrow, and we'll see what can be done for you."These words were spoken in a decided manner, which seemed to have itseffect upon Bob. He nodded assentingly, and left the room. I remainedstaring at the judge, and lost in wonder at these strange proceedings.When Bob was gone, the Alcalde gave a blast on a shell, which suppliedthe place of a bell. Then seizing the cigar-box, he tried one cigarafter another, broke them peevishly up, and threw the pieces out of thewindow. The negro, whom the shell had summoned, stood for some timewaiting, whilst his master broke up the cigars and threw them away. Atlast the judge's patience seemed quite to leave him."Hark ye, Ptoly!" growled he to the frightened black, "the next time youbring me cigars that neither draw nor smoke, I'll make your back smokefor it. Mind that, now. There's not a single one of them worth a rottenmaize-stalk. Tell that old coffee-coloured hag of Johnny's, that I'llhave no more of her cigars. Ride over to Mr Ducie's and fetch a box.And, d'ye hear? tell him I want to speak a word with him and theneighbours. Ask him to bring the neighbours with him to-morrow morning.And mind you're home again by two o'clock. Take the mustang we caughtlast week. I want to see how he goes."The negro listened to these various commands with open mouth and staringeyes, then, giving a perplexed look at his master, shot out of the room."Whither away, Ptoly?" shouted the Alcalde after him."To Massa Ducie.""Without a pass, Ptoly? And what are you going to say to Mr Ducie?""Him nebber send bad cigar again, him coffee-cullud hag. Massa speak toJohnny and neighbours. Johnny bring neighbours here.""I thought as much," said the judge, with perfect equanimity. "Wait aminute; I'll write the pass, and a couple of lines for Mr Ducie."This was soon done, and the negro despatched on his errand. The judgewaited till he heard the sound of the horse's feet galloping away, andthen, laying hold of the box of despised cigars, lit the first whichcame to hand. It smoked capitally, as did also one that I took. Theywere Principes, and as good as I ever tasted.I passed the whole of that day alone with the judge, who, I soon found,knew various friends of mine in the States. I told him the circumstancesunder which I had come to Texas, and the intention I had of settlingthere, should I find the country to my liking. During our longconversation, I was able to form a very different, and much morefavourable, estimate of his character, than I had done from hisinterview with Bob. He was the very man to be useful to a new country;of great energy, sound judgment, enlarged and liberal views. He gave mesome curious information as to the state of things in Texas; and did notthink it necessary to conceal from me, as an American, and one whointended settling in the country, that there was a plan in agitation forthrowing off the Mexican yoke, and declaring Texas an independentrepublic. The high-spirited, and, for the most part, intelligentemigrants from the United States, who formed a very large majority ofthe population of Texas, saw themselves, with no very patient feeling,under the rule of a people both morally and physically inferior tothemselves. They looked with contempt, and justly so, on the bigoted,idle, and ignorant Mexicans, whilst the difference of religion, andinterference of the priests, served to increase the dislike between theSpanish and Anglo-American races.Although the project was as yet not quite ripe for execution, it wasdiscussed freely and openly by the American settlers. "It is theinterest of every man to keep it secret," said the judge; "and therecan be nothing to induce even the worst amongst us to betray a cause, bythe success of which he is sure to profit. We have many bad charactersin Texas, the offscourings of the United States--men like Bob, or farworse than him; but debauched, gambling, drunken villains though theybe, they are the men we want when it comes to a struggle; and when thattime arrives, they will all be found ready to put their shoulders to thewheel, use knife and rifle, and shed the last drop of their blood indefence of their fellow-citizens, and of the new and independentrepublic of Texas. At this moment we must wink at many things whichwould be severely punished in an older and more settled country; eachman's arm is of immense value to the State; for on the day of battle weshall have, not two to one, but twenty to one opposed to us."I was awakened the following morning by the sound of a horse's feet;and, looking out of the window, saw Bob dismounting from his mustang.The last twenty-four hours had told fearfully upon him. His limbs seemedpowerless, and he reeled and staggered in such a manner that I at firstthought him intoxicated. But such was not the case. His was the deadlyweariness caused by mental anguish. He looked like one just taken offthe rack.Hastily putting on my clothes, I hurried down stairs and opened thehouse door. Bob stood with his head resting on his horse's neck, and hishands crossed, shivering and groaning. When I spoke to him, he lookedup, but did not seem to know me. I tied his horse to a post, and takinghis hand, led him into the house. He followed like a child, apparentlywithout the will or the power to resist; and when I placed him a chair,he fell into it with a weight that made it crack under him, and shookthe house. I could not get him to speak, and was about to return to myroom to complete my toilet, when I again heard the tramp of mustangs.This was a party of half-a-dozen horsemen, all dressed in hunting-shirtsover buckskin breeches and jackets, and armed with rifles andbowie-knives; stout, daring-looking fellows, evidently from thesouth-western states, with the true Kentucky half-horse half-alligatorprofile, and the usual allowance of thunder, lighting, and earthquake.It struck me, when I saw them, that two or three thousand such men wouldhave small difficulty in dealing with a whole army of Mexicans, if thelatter were all of the pigmy, spindle-shanked breed I had seen on firstlanding. These giants could easily have walked away with a Mexican ineach hand.They jumped off their horses, and threw the bridles to the negroes inthe usual Kentuckian devil-may-care style, and then walked into thehouse with the air of people who make themselves at home everywhere, andwho knew themselves to be more masters in Texas than the Mexicansthemselves. On entering the parlour, they nodded a "good morning" tome, rather coldly to be sure, for they had seen me talking with Bob,which probably did not much recommend me. Presently, four more horsemenrode up, and then a third party, so that there were now fourteen of themassembled, all decided-looking men, in the prime of life and strength.The judge, who slept in an adjoining room, had been awakened by thenoise. I heard him jump out of bed, and not three minutes elapsed beforehe entered the parlour.After he had shaken hands with all his visitors, he presented me tothem, and I found that I was in the presence of no less importantpersons than the Ayuntamiento of San Felipe de Austin; and that two ofmy worthy countrymen were corregidors, one a procurador, and the others_buenos hombres_, or freeholders. They did not seem, however, to prizetheir titles much, for they addressed one another by their surnamesonly.The negro brought a light, opened the cigar-box, and arranged thechairs; the judge pointed to the sideboard and to the cigars, and thensat down. Some took a dram, others lit a cigar.Several minutes elapsed, during which the men sat in perfect silence,as if they were collecting their thoughts, or as though it wereundignified to show any haste or impatience to speak. This grave sort ofdeliberation, which is met with among certain classes, and in certainprovinces of the Union, has often struck me as a curious feature of ournational character. It partakes of the stoical dignity of the Indian athis council fire, and of the stern religious gravity of the earlyPuritan settlers in America.During this pause Bob was writhing on his chair like a worm, his faceconcealed by his hands, his elbows on his knees. At last, when all haddrunk and smoked, the judge laid down his cigar."Men!" said he."Squire!" answered they."We've a business before us, which I calculate will be best explained byhim whom it concerns."The men looked at the Squire, then at Bob, then at me."Bob Rock! or whatever your name may be, if you have aught to say, sayit!" continued the judge."Said it all yesterday," muttered Bob, his face still covered by hishands."Yes, but you must say it again to-day. Yesterday was Sunday, and Sundayis a day of rest, and not of business. I will neither judge you, norallow you to be judged, by what you said yesterday. Besides, it was allbetween ourselves, for I don't reckon Mr Morse as anything; I count himstill as a stranger.""What's the use of so much palaver, when the thing's plain enough?" saidBob peevishly, raising his head as he spoke.The men stared at him in grave astonishment. He was really frightful tobehold: his face of a sort of blue tint; his cheeks hollow; his beardwild and ragged; his blood-shot eyes rolling, and deep sunk in theirsockets. His appearance was scarcely human. "I tell you again," said thejudge, "I will condemn no man upon his own word alone; much less you,who have been in my service, and eaten of my bread. You accused yourselfyesterday, but you were delirious at the time--you had the fever uponyou.""It's no use, Squire," said Bob, apparently touched by the kindness ofthe judge. "You mean well, I see; but though you might deliver me out ofmen's hands, you couldn't rescue me from myself. It's no use--I must behung--hung on the same tree under which the man I killed lies buried."The men, or the jurors, as I may call them, looked at one another, butsaid nothing."It's no use," again cried Bob, in a shrill, agonising tone. "If hehad attacked me, or only threatened me; but no, he didn't do it. Ihear his words still, when he said, 'Do it not, man! I've wife andchild. What you intend brings no blessin' on the doer.' But I heardnothin' then except the voice of the devil; I brought the rifledown--levelled--fired--"The man's agony was so intense that even the iron-featured jury seemedmoved by it. They cast sharp but stolen glances at Bob. There was ashort silence."So you have killed a man?" said a deep bass voice at last."Ay, that have I!" gasped Bob."And how came that?" continued his questioner."How it came? You must ask the devil, or Johnny. No, not Johnny, he cantell you nothing; he was not there. No one can tell you but me; and Ihardly know how it was. The man was at Johnny's, and Johnny showed mehis belt full of money.""Johnny!" exclaimed several of the jury."Ay, Johnny! He reckoned on winning it from him, but the man was toocautious for that; and when Johnny had plucked all my feathers, won mytwenty dollars fifty----""Twenty dollars fifty cents," interposed the judge, "which I paid himfor catching mustangs and shooting game."The men nodded."And then, because he wouldn't play, you shot him?" asked the samedeep-toned voice as before."No--some hours after--by the Jacinto--near the Patriarch--met him downthere, and killed him.""Thought there was something out o' the common thereaway," said one ofthe jury; "for as we rode by the tree a whole nation of kites and turkeybuzzards flew out. Didn't they, Mr Heart?"Mr Heart nodded."Met him by the river, and wanted halves of his money," continued Bobmechanically. "He said he'd give me something to buy a quid, and morethan enough for that, but not halves. 'I've wife and child,' saidhe----""And you?" asked the juror with the deep voice, which, this time, had ahollow sound in it."Shot him down," said Bob, with a wild, hoarse laugh.There was a dead pause of some duration. The jury sat with eyes fixedupon the ground."And who was the man?" said a juror at last."Didn't ask him; and it warn't written on his face. He was from theStates; but whether a hosier, or a buckeye, or a mudhead, is more thanI can say.""The thing must be investigated, Alcalde," said another of the jury,after a second pause."It must so," answered the Alcalde."What's the good of so much investigation?" grumbled Bob."What good?" repeated the Alcalde. "Because we owe it to ourselves, tothe dead man, and to you, not to sentence you without having held aninquest on the body. There's another thing which I must call yourattention to," continued he, turning to the jury; "the man is half outof his mind--not _compos mentis_, as they say. He's got the fever, andhad it when he did the deed; he was urged on by Johnny, and maddened byhis losses at play. In spite of his wild excitement, however, he savedthat gentleman's life yonder, Mr Edward Nathaniel Morse.""Did he so?" said one of the jury."That did he," replied I, "not only by saving me from drowning when myhorse dragged me, half-dead and helpless, into the river, but also bythe care and attention he forced Johnny and his mulatto to bestow uponme. Without him I should not be alive at this moment."Bob gave me a look which went to my heart. The tears were standing inhis eyes. The jury heard me in deep silence."It seems that Johnny led you on and excited you to this?" said one ofthe jurors."I didn't say that. I only said that he pointed to the man's money-bag,and said----But what is it to you what Johnny said? I'm the man who didit. I speak for myself, and I'll be hanged for myself.""All very good, Bob," interposed the Alcalde; "but we can't hang youwithout being sure you deserve it. What do you say to it, Mr Whyte?You're the procurador--and you, Mr Heart and Mr Stone? Help yourselvesto rum or brandy; and, Mr Bright and Irwin, take another cigar. They'reconsiderable tolerable the cigars--ain't they? That's brandy, Mr Whyte,in the diamond bottle."Mr Whyte had got up to give his opinion, as I thought; but I wasmistaken. He stepped to the sideboard, took up a bottle in one hand anda glass in the other, every movement being performed with the greatestdeliberation."Well, Squire," said he, "or rather Alcalde--"After the word "Alcalde," he filled the glass half full of rum."If it's as we've heard," added he, pouring about a spoonful of wateron the rum, "and Bob has killed the man"--he continued, throwing in somelumps of sugar--"murdered him"--he went on, crushing the sugar with awooden stamp--"I rather calkilate"--here he raised the glass--"Bob oughtto be hung," he concluded, putting the tumbler to his mouth and emptyingit.The jurors nodded in silence. Bob drew a deep breath, as if a load weretaken off his breast."Well," said the judge, who did not look over well pleased, "if you allthink so, and Bob is agreed, I calculate we must do as he wishes. I tellyou, though, I don't do it willingly. At any rate, we must find the deadman first, and examine Johnny. We owe that to ourselves and to Bob.""Certainly," said the jury with one voice."You are a dreadful murderer, Bob, a very considerable one," continuedthe judge; "but I tell you to your face, and not to flatter you, thereis more good in your little finger than in Johnny's whole hide. And I'msorry for you, because, at the bottom, you are not a bad man, thoughyou've been led away by bad company and example. I calculate you mightstill be reformed, and made very useful--more so, perhaps, than youthink. Your rifle's a capital good one."At these last words the men all looked up, and threw a keen inquiringglance at Bob."You might be of great service," continued the judge encouragingly, "tothe country and to your fellow-citizens. You're worth a dozen Mexicansany day."Whilst the judge spoke, Bob let his head fall on his breast, and seemedreflecting. He now looked up."I understand, Squire; I see what you're drivin' at. But I can't doit--I can't wait so long. My life's a burthen and a sufferin' to me.Wherever I go, by day or by night, he's always there, standin' beforeme, and drivin' me under the Patriarch."There was a pause of some duration. The judge resumed."So be it, then," said he with a sort of suppressed sigh. "We'll see thebody to-day, Bob, and you may come to-morrow at ten o'clock.""Couldn't it be sooner?" asked Bob impatiently."Why sooner? Are you in such a hurry?" asked Mr Heart."What's the use of palaverin'?" said Bob sulkily. "I told you alreadyI'm sick of my life. If you don't come till ten o'clock, by the timeyou've had your talk out and ridden to the Patriarch, the fever'll beupon me.""But we can't be flying about like a parcel of wild geese, because ofyour fever," said the procurador."Certainly not," said Bob humbly."It's an ugly customer the fever, though, Mr Whyte," observed Mr Trace;"and I calculate we ought to do him that pleasure. What do you think,Squire?""I reckon he's rather indiscreet in his askin's," said the judge, in atone of vexation. "However, as he wishes it, and if it is agreeable toyou," added he, turning to the Ayuntamiento; "and as it's you, Bob, Icalculate we must do what you ask.""Thankee," said Bob."Nothing to thank for," growled the judge; "and now go into the kitchenand get a good meal of roast beef, d'ye hear?" He knocked upon thetable. "Some good roast beef for Bob," said he to a negress who entered;"and see that he eats it. And get yourself dressed more decently,Bob--like a white man and a Christian, not like a wild redskin."The negress and Bob left the room. The conversation now turned uponJohnny, who appeared, from all accounts, to be a very bad and dangerousfellow; and after a short discussion, they agreed to lynch him, inbackwoodsman's phrase, just as coolly as if they had been talking ofcatching a mustang. When the men had come to this satisfactoryconclusion, they got up, drank the judge's health and mine, shook us bythe hand, and left the room and the house.The day passed more heavily than the preceding one. I was too engrossedwith the strange scene I had witnessed to talk much. The judge, too, wasin a very bad humour. He was vexed that a man should be hung who mightrender the country much and good service if he remained alive. ThatJohnny, the miserable, cowardly, treacherous Johnny should be sent outof the world as quickly as possible, was perfectly correct, but with Bobit was very different. In vain did I remind him of the crime of whichBob had been guilty--of the outraged laws of God and man--and of theatonement due. It was no use. If Bob had sinned against society, hecould repair his fault much better by remaining alive than by beinghung; and as to anything else, God would avenge it in his own good time.We parted for the night, neither of us convinced by the other'sarguments.We were sitting at breakfast the next morning, when a man, dressed inblack, rode up to the door. It was Bob, but so metamorphosed that Iscarcely knew him. Instead of the torn and bloodstained handkerchiefround his head, he wore a hat; instead of the leathern jacket, a decentcloth coat. He had shaved off his beard too, and looked quite anotherman. His manner had altered with his dress; he seemed tranquil andresigned. With a mild, submissive look, he held out his hand to thejudge, who took and shook it heartily."Ah, Bob!" said he, "if you had only listened to what I so often toldyou! I had those clothes brought on purpose from New Orleans, that, onSundays at least, you might look like a decent and respectable man. Howoften have I asked you to put them on, and come with us to meeting, tohear Mr Bliss preach? There is some truth in the saying, that the coatmakes the man. With his Sunday coat, a man often puts on other andbetter thoughts. If that had been your case only fifty-two times in theyear, you'd have learned to avoid Johnny before now."Bob said nothing."Well, well! I've done all I could to make a better man of you--all thatwas in my power.""That you have," answered Bob, much moved. "God reward you for it!"I could not help holding out my hand to the worthy judge; and as I didso, I thought I saw a moisture in his eye, which he suppressed, however,and, turning to the breakfast table, bade us sit down. Bob thanked himhumbly, but declined, saying that he wished to appear fasting before hisoffended Creator. The judge insisted, and reasoned with him, and at lasthe took a chair.Before we had done breakfast, our friends of the preceding day began todrop in, and some of them joined us at the meal. When they had all takenwhat they chose, the judge ordered the negroes to clear away, and leavethe room. This done, he seated himself at the upper end of the table,with the Ayuntamiento on either side, and Bob facing him."Mr Whyte," said the Alcalde, "have you, as procurador, anything tostate?""Yes, Alcalde," replied the procurador. "In virtue of my office, I madea search in the place mentioned by Bob Rock, and there found the body ofa man who had met his death by a gunshot wound. I also found a belt fullof money, and several letters of recommendation to different planters,from which it appears that the man was on his way from Illinois to SanFelipe, to buy land of Colonel Austin, and settle in Texas."The procurador then produced a pair of saddle-bags, out of which he tooka leathern belt stuffed with money, which he laid on the table, togetherwith the letters. The judge opened the belt, and counted the money. Itamounted to upwards of five hundred dollars in gold and silver. Theprocurador then read the letters.One of the corregidors now announced that Johnny and his mulatto hadleft their house and fled. He, the corregidor, had sent people inpursuit of them, but as yet there were no tidings of their capture. Thispiece of intelligence seemed to vex the judge greatly, but he made noremark on it at the time."Bob Rock!" cried he.Bob stepped forward."Bob Rock, or by whatever other name you may be known, are you guilty ornot guilty of this man's death?""Guilty!" replied Bob, in a low tone."Gentlemen of the jury, will you be pleased to give your verdict?"The jury left the room. In ten minutes they returned."Guilty!" said the foreman."Bob Rock," said the judge solemnly, "your fellow-citizens have foundyou guilty; and I pronounce the sentence--that you be hung by the neckuntil you are dead. The Lord be merciful to your soul!""Amen!" said all present."Thank ye," murmured Bob."We will seal up the property of the deceased," said the judge, "andthen proceed to our painful duty."He called for a light, and he and the procurador and corregidors sealedup the papers and money."Has any one aught to allege why the sentence should not be put inexecution?" said the Alcalde, with a glance at me."He saved my life, judge and fellow-citizens!" cried I, deeply moved.Bob shook his head mournfully."Let us go, then, in God's name," said the judge.Without another word being spoken, we left the house and mounted ourhorses. The judge had brought a Bible with him; and he rode on, a littlein front, with Bob, doing his best to prepare him for the eternity towhich he was hastening. Bob listened attentively for some time; but atlast he seemed to get impatient, and pushed his mustang into so fast atrot, that for a moment we suspected him of wishing to escape the doomhe had so eagerly sought. But it was only that he feared the fever mightreturn before the expiration of the short time he yet had to live.After an hour's ride, we came to the enormous live oak distinguished asthe _Patriarch_. Two or three of the men dismounted, and held aside theheavy moss-covered branches, which swept the ground and formed acomplete curtain round the tree. The party rode through the opening thusmade, and drew up in a circle beneath the huge leafy dome. In the centreof this ring stood Bob, trembling like an aspen leaf, his eyes fixed ona small mound of fresh earth, partly concealed by the branches, andwhich had escaped my notice on my former visit to the tree. It was thegrave of the murdered man.A magnificent burial-place was that: no poet could have dreamed ordesired a better. Above, the huge vault, with its natural frettings andarches; below, the greenest, freshest grass; around, an eternal halflight, streaked and varied, and radiant as a rainbow. It was imposinglybeautiful.Bob, the judge, and the corregidors, remained sitting on their horses,but several of the other men dismounted. One of the latter cut the lassofrom Bob's saddle, and threw an end of it over one of the lowermostbranches; then uniting the two ends, formed them into a strong noose,which he left dangling from the bough. This simple preparationcompleted, the Alcalde took off his hat and folded his hands. The othersfollowed his example."Bob!" said the judge to the unfortunate criminal, whose head was bowedon his horse's mane; "Bob! we will pray for your poor soul, which isabout to part from your sinful body."Bob raised his head. "I had something to say," exclaimed he, in awandering and husky tone. "Something I wanted to say.""What have you to say?"Bob stared around him; his lips moved, but no word escaped him. Hisspirit was evidently no longer with things of this earth."Bob!" said the judge again, "we will pray for your soul.""Pray! pray!" groaned he. "I shall need it."In slow and solemn accents, and with great feeling, the judge utteredthe Lord's Prayer. Bob repeated every word after him. When it wasended--"May God be merciful to his soul!" exclaimed the judge."Amen!" said all present.One of the corregidors now passed the noose of the lasso round Bob'sneck, another bound his eyes, a third person drew his feet out of thestirrups, whilst a fourth stepped behind his horse with a heavyriding-whip. All was done in the deepest silence; not a word wasbreathed, nor a foot-fall heard on the soft, yielding turf. There wassomething awful and oppressive in the profound stillness that reigned inthe vast enclosure.The whip fell. The horse gave a spring forwards. At the same moment Bobmade a desperate clutch at the bridle, and a loud "Hold!" burst inthrilling tones from the lips of the judge.It was too late; Bob was already hanging. The judge pushed forward,nearly riding down the man who held the whip, and, seizing Bob in hisarms, raised him on his own horse, supporting him with one hand, whilstwith the other he strove to unfasten the noose. His whole gigantic frametrembled with eagerness and exertion. The procurador, corregidors--all,in short, stood in open-mouthed wonder at this strange proceeding."Whisky! whisky! Has nobody any whisky!" shouted the judge.One of the men sprang forward with a whisky-flask, another supported thebody, and a third the feet, of the half-hanged man, whilst the judgepoured a few drops of spirits into his mouth. The cravat, which had notbeen taken off, had hindered the breaking of the neck. Bob at lastopened his eyes, and gazed vacantly around him."Bob," said the judge, "you had something to say, hadn't you, aboutJohnny?""Johnny," gasped Bob, "Johnny.""What's become of him?""He's gone to San Antonio, Johnny.""To San Antonio!" repeated the judge, with an expression of great alarmoverspreading his features."To San Antonio--to Padre Jose," continued Bob; "a Catholic. Beware!""A traitor, then!" muttered several."Catholic!" exclaimed the judge. The words he had heard seemed todeprive him of all strength. His arms fell slowly and gradually by hisside, and Bob was again hanging from the lasso."A Catholic! a traitor!" repeated several of the men; "a citizen and atraitor!""So it is, men!" exclaimed the judge. "We've no time to lose," continuedhe, in a harsh, hurried voice; "no time to lose; we must catch him.""That must we," said several, "or our plans are betrayed to theMexicans.""After him immediately to San Antonio!" cried the judge, with the samedesperately hurried manner."To San Antonio!" repeated the men, pushing their way through thecurtain of moss and branches. As soon as they were outside, those whowere dismounted sprang into the saddle, and, without another word, thewhole party galloped away in the direction of San Antonio.The judge alone remained, seemingly lost in thought; his countenancepale and anxious, and his eyes following the riders. His reverie,however, had lasted but a very few seconds, when he seized my arm."Hasten to my house!" cried he; "lose no time; don't spare horse-flesh.Take Ptoly and a fresh beast; hurry over to San Felipe, and tell StephenAustin what has happened, and what you have seen and heard.""But, judge----""Off with you at once, if you would serve and save Texas. Bring my wifeand daughter back."And so saying, he literally drove me from under the tree, pushing me outwith both hands. I was so startled at the expression of violentimpatience and anxiety which his features assumed, that, withoutventuring to make further objection, I struck the spurs into my mustangand galloped off.Before I had got fifty yards from the tree, I looked round: the judgewas nowhere to be seen.I rode full speed to the judge's house, and thence on a fresh horse toSan Felipe, where I found Colonel Austin, who seemed much alarmed bythe news I brought him, had horses saddled, and sent round to all theneighbours. Before the wife and step-daughter of the judge had madetheir preparations to accompany me home, he and fifty armed men rodeoff in the direction of San Antonio.I escorted the ladies to their house, but scarcely had we arrivedthere, when I was seized with fever, the result of my recent fatiguesand sufferings. For some days my life was in danger, but a goodconstitution, and the kindest and most watchful nursing, triumphed overthe disease. As soon as I was able to mount a horse, I set out for MrNeal's plantation, in company with his huntsman Anthony, who, afterspending many days, and riding over hundreds of miles of ground in questof me, had at last found me out.Our way led past the Patriarch; and, as we approached it, we sawinnumerable birds of prey and carrion-crows circling round it, croakingand screaming. I turned my eyes in another direction; but, nevertheless,I felt a strange sort of longing to revisit the tree. Anthony hadridden on, and was already hidden from view behind its branches.Presently I heard him give a loud shout of exultation. I jumped off myhorse, and led it through a small opening in the leafage.Some forty paces from me, the body of a man was hanging by a lasso fromthe very same branch on which Bob had been hung. It was not Bob,however, for the corpse was much too short and small for him.I drew nearer. "Johnny!" I exclaimed. "That's Johnny!""It _was_," answered Anthony. "Thank Heaven, there's an end of him!"I shuddered. "But where is Bob?""Bob?" cried Anthony. "Bob!"I glanced at the grave. The mound of earth seemed larger and higher thanwhen I had last seen it. Doubtless the murderer lay beside his victim."Shall we not render the last service to this wretch, Anthony?" asked I."The scoundrel!" answered the huntsman. "I won't dirty my hands withhim. Let him poison the kites and the crows!"We rode on.HOW WE GOT POSSESSION OF THE TUILERIES.A ROMANCE AFTER THE MANNER OF ALEXANDER DUMAS.BY PROFESSOR AYTOUN.[_MAGA._ APRIL 1848.]CHAPTER I.HEADS OR TAILS?I like political ovations. It is a very pleasant thing to perambulateEurope in the guise of a regenerator, sowing the good seed of politicaleconomy in places which have hitherto been barren, and enlightening theheathen upon the texture of calico, and the blessings of unreciprocalfree-trade. I rather flatter myself that I have excited considerablesensation in certain quarters of Europe, previously plunged in darkness,and unillumined by the argand lamp of Manchester philosophy. SinceSeptember last, I have not been idle, but have borne the banner ofregeneration from the Baltic to the shores of the Bosphorus.As the apostle of peace and plenty, I have everywhere been rapturouslygreeted. Never, I believe, was there a sincerer, a more earnest wishprevalent throughout the nations for the maintenance of universaltranquillity than now; never a better security for that fraternisationwhich we all so earnestly desire; never a more peaceful orunrevolutionary epoch. Such, at least, were my ideas a short time ago,when, after having fulfilled a secret mission of some delicacy in a verydistant part of the Continent, I turned my face homewards, and retracedmy steps in the direction of my own Glaswegian Mecca. In passingthrough Italy, I found that country deeply engaged in plans of socialorganisation, and much cheered by the sympathising presence of a memberof her Britannic Majesty's Cabinet. It was delightful to witness thegood feeling which seemed to prevail between the British unaccreditedminister and the scum of the Ausonian population,--the mutual politenessand sympathy exhibited by each of the high contracting parties,--and theperfect understanding on the part of the Lazzaroni, of the motives whichhad induced the northern peer to absent himself from felicity awhile,and devote the whole of his vast talents and genius to the cause offoreign insurrection. I had just time to congratulate Pope Pius uponthe charming prospect which was before him, and to say a few hurriedwords regarding the superiority of cotton to Christianity as a universaltranquillising medium, when certain unpleasant rumours from the frontierforced their way to the Eternal City, and convinced me of the proprietyof continuing my retreat towards the land of my nativity. Not that Ifear steel, or have any abstract repugnance to grape, but my missionwas emphatically one of peace; I had a great duty to discharge to mycountry, and that might have been lamentably curtailed by the bullet ofsome blundering Austrian.Behold me, then, at Paris--that Aspasian capital of the world. I hadoften visited it before in the character of a tourist and literateur,but never until now as a politician. True, I was not accredited: Ienjoyed neither diplomatic rank, nor the more soothing salary which isits accompaniment. But, in these times, such distinctions are rapidlyfading away. I had seen with my own eyes a good deal of spontaneousdiplomacy, which certainly did not seem to flow in the regular channel;and, furthermore, I could personally testify to the weight attachedabroad to private commercial crusades. I needed no official costume; Iwas the representative of a popular movement; I was the champion of aclass; and my name and my principles were alike familiar to the earsof the illuminati of Europe. Formerly I had been proud of associatingwith Eugene Sue, Charles Nodier, Paul de Kock, and other characters ofephemeral literary celebrity; I had wasted my time in orgies at theCafe de Londres, or the Rocher de Cancale, and was but too happy to beadmitted to those little parties of pleasure in which the majority ofthe cavaliers are feuilletonists, and the dames, terrestrial stars fromthe constellation of the Theatre des Varietes. Now I looked back on thisformer phase of my existence with a consciousness of having wasted myenergies. I had shot into another sphere--was entitled to take rank withThiers, Odillon Barrot, Cremieux, and other champions of the people; andI resolved to comport myself accordingly. I do not feel at liberty toenter into the exact details of the public business which detained mefor some time in Paris. It is enough to say, that I was warmly andcordially received, and on the best possible terms with the members ofthe _extreme gauche_.One afternoon about the middle of February, I was returning from theChamber of Deputies, meditating very seriously upon the nature of adebate which I had just heard, regarding the opposition of ministers tothe holding of a Reform banquet in Paris, and in which my friend Barrothad borne a very conspicuous share. At the corner of the Place de laConcorde, I observed a tall swarthy man in the uniform of the NationalGuard, engaged in cheapening a poodle. I thought I recognised theface--hesitated, stopped, and in a moment was in the arms of myillustrious friend, the Count of Monte-Christo, and Marquis Davy de laPailleterie!"_Capdibious!_" cried the author of Trois Mousquetaires--"Who would havethought to see you here? Welcome, my dear Dunshunner, a thousand timesto Paris. Where have you been these hundred years?""Voyaging, like yourself, to the East, my dear Marquis," replied I."Ah, bah! That is an old joke. I never was nearer Egypt than the Boisde Boulogne; however, I did manage to mystify the good public aboutthe baths of Alexandria. But how came you here just now? _Dix milletonnerres!_ They told me you had been made _pair d'Angleterre_.""Why, no; not exactly. There was some talk of it, I believe. Butjealousy--jealousy, you know--""Ah, yes,--I comprehend! _Ce vilain Palmerston, n'est-ce pas?_ But thatis always the way; ministers are always the same. You will hardly creditit, my dear friend, but I--I with my ancient title--and the most popularauthor of France, am not even a member of the Chamber of Deputies!""You amaze me!""Yes--after all, you manage better in England. There is that littleD'Israeli--very clever man--Monceton Milles, Bourring, and Wakeley,all in the legislature; while here the literary interest is altogetherunrepresented.""Surely, my dear Marquis, you forget--there's Lamartine.""Lamartine! a mere sentimentalist--a nobody! No, my dear friend; Francemust be regenerated. The daughter of glory, she cannot live withoutprogression.""How, Marquis? I thought that you and Montpensier--""Were friends? True enough. It was I who settled the Spanish marriages.There, I rather flatter myself, I had your perfidious Albion on the hip.But, to say the truth, I am tired of family alliances. We want somethingmore to keep us alive--something startling, in short--something like thePyramids and Moscow, to give us an impulse forward into the dark gulf offuturity. The limits of Algeria are too contracted for the fluttering ofour national banner. We want freedom, less taxation, and a more extendedfrontier.""And cannot all these," said I, unwilling to lose the opportunity ofconverting so remarkable a man as the Count of Monte-Christo to thegrand principles of Manchester--"cannot these be attained by morepeaceful methods than the subversion of general tranquillity? Whatis freedom, my dear Marquis, but an unlimited exportation of cottonabroad, with double task hours of wholesome labour at home? How willyou diminish your taxation better, than by reducing all duties onimports, until the deficit is laid directly upon the shoulders of asingle uncomplaining class? Why seek to extend your frontier, whilstwe in England, out of sheer love to the world at large, are rapidlydemolishing our colonies? Did you ever happen," continued I, pullingfrom my pocket a bundle of the Manchester manifestos, "to peruse any ofthese glorious epitomes of reason and of political science? Are youfamiliar with the soul-stirring tracts of Thompson and of Bright? Didyou ever read the Socialist's scheme for universal philanthropy, whichCobden--""_Peste!_" replied the illustrious nobleman, "what the deuce do we carefor the opinions of Monsieur Tonson, or any of your low manufacturers?By my honour, Dunshunner, I am afraid you are losing your head. Don'tyou know, my dear fellow, that all great revolutions spring from us, themen of genius? It is we who are the true rousers of the people; we, thepoets and romancers, who are the source of all legitimate power. WitnessVoltaire, Rousseau, De Beranger, and--I may say it without anyimputation of vanity--the Marquis Davy de la Pailleterie!""Yours is a new theory!" said I, musingly."New! Pray pardon me--it is as old as literature itself! No revolutioncan be effectual unless it has the fine arts for its basis. Simple as Istand here, I demand no more time than a month to wrap Europe inuniversal war.""You don't say so seriously?""On my honour.""Give me leave to doubt it.""Should you like a proof?""Not on so great a scale, certainly. I am afraid the results would betoo serious to justify the experiment.""Ah, bah! You are a philanthropist. What are a few thousand livescompared with the triumph of mind?""Not much to you, perhaps, but certainly something to the owners. Butcome, my dear friend, you are jesting. You don't mean to insinuate thatyou possess any such power?""I do indeed.""But the means? Granting that you have the power--and all Europeacknowledges the extraordinary faculties of the author ofMonte-Christo--some time would be required for their development.You cannot hope to inoculate the mind of a nation in a moment.""I did not say a moment--I said a month.""And dare I ask your recipe?""A very simple one. Two romances, each in ten volumes, and a couple ofmelodramas.""What! of your own?""Of mine," replied the Marquis de la Pailleterie."I wish to heaven that I knew how you set about it. I have heard G. P.R. James backed for a volume a-month, but this sinks him into utterinsignificance.""There is no difficulty in explaining it. He writes,--I never do.""You never write?""Never.""Then how the mischief do you manage?""I compose. Since I met you, I have composed and dictated a wholechapter of the Memoirs of a Physician!""Dictated?""To be sure. It is already written down, and will be circulatedthroughout Paris to-morrow.""Monsieur le Marquis--have I the honour to hold an interview withSatan?""_Mon cher, vous me flattez beaucoup!_ I have not thought it necessaryto intrust my experiences to the sympathising bosom of M. FredericSoulie.""Have you a familiar spirit, then?" said I, casting a suspicious glancetowards the poodle, then vigorously engaged in hunting through itswoolly fleece.The Marquis smiled."The ingenuity of your supposition, my dear friend, deserves a specificanswer. I have indeed a familiar spirit--that is, I am possessed of aconfidant, ready at all times, though absent, to chronicle my thoughts,and to express, in corresponding words, the spontaneous emotions of mysoul. Nay, you need not start. The art is an innocent one, and itspractice, though divulged, would not expose me in any way to thecensures of the church.""You pique my curiosity strangely!""Well, then, listen. For some years I have paid the utmost attention tothe science of animal magnetism, an art which undoubtedly lay at thefoundation of the ancient Chaldean lore, and which, though now revived,has been debased by the artifices and quackery of knaves. I need not gointo details. After long search, I have succeeded in finding a beingwhich, in its dormant or spiritual state, has an entire affinity withmy own. When awake, you would suppose Leontine Deschappelles to be amere ordinary though rather interesting female, endowed certainly witha miraculous sensibility for music, but not otherwise in any wayremarkable. But, when asleep, she becomes as it were the counterpartor reflex of myself. Every thought which passes through my bosomsimultaneously arises in hers. I do not need even to utter the words. Bysome miraculous process, these present themselves as vividly to her asif I had bestowed the utmost labour upon composition. I have but tothrow her into a magnetic sleep, and my literary product for the day issecured. I go forth through Paris, mingle in society, appear idle and_insouciant_; and yet all the while the ideal personages of my tale arepassing over the mirror of my mind, and performing their allotted duty.I have reached such perfection in the art, that I can compose two oreven three romances at once. I return towards evening, and then I findLeontine, pale indeed and exhausted, but with a vast pile of manuscriptbefore her, which contains the faithful transcript of my thoughts. Now,perhaps, you will cease to wonder at an apparent fertility, which, I amaware, has challenged the admiration and astonishment of Europe."All this was uttered by Monte-Christo with such exemplary gravity, thatI stood perfectly confounded. If true, it was indeed the solution of thegreatest literary problem of the age; but I could hardly suppress theidea that he was making me the victim of a hoax."And whereabouts does she dwell, this Demoiselle Leontine?" said I."At my house," he replied; "she is my adopted child. Poor Leontine!sometimes when I look at her wasted cheek, I feel a pang of regret tothink that she is paying so dear for a celebrity which must be immortal.But it is the fate of genius, my friend, and all of us must submit!"As the Marquis uttered this sentiment with a pathetic sigh, I could notrefrain from glancing at his manly and athletic proportions. Certainlythere was no appearance of over-fatigue or lassitude there. He lookedthe very incarnation of good cheer, and had contrived to avert from hisown person all vestige of those calamities which he was pleased sofeelingly to deplore. He might have been exhibited at the _Trois Freres_as a splendid result of their nutritive and culinary system."You doubt me still, I see," said De la Pailleterie. "Well, I cannotwonder at it. Such things, I know, sound strange in the apprehension ofyou incredulous islanders. But I will even give you a proof, Dunshunner,which is more than I would do to any other man--for I cannot forget theservice you rendered me long ago at the Isle de Bourbon. You see thislittle instrument,--put it to your ear. I shall summon Leontine tospeak, and the sound of her reply will be conveyed to you through thatsilver tube, which is in strict _rapport_ with her magneticconstitution."So saying, he placed in my hand a miniature silver trumpet, beautifullywrought, which I immediately placed to my ear.Monte-Christo drew himself up to his full height, fixed his fine eyesearnestly upon vacuity, made several passes upwards with his hand, andthen said,"My friend, do you hear me? If so, answer."Immediately, and to my unexpected surprise, there thrilled through thesilver tube a whisper of miraculous sweetness."Great master! I listen--I obey!""May St Mungo, St Mirren, St Rollox, and all the other western saints,have me in their keeping!" cried I. "Heard ever mortal man aught likethis?""Hush--be silent!" said the Marquis, "or you may destroy the spell.Leontine, have you concluded the chapter?""I have," said the voice; "shall I read the last sentences?""Do," replied the adept, who seemed to hear the response simultaneouslywith myself, by intuition.The voice went on: "At this moment the door of the apartment opened, andChon rushed into the room. 'Well, my little sister, how goes it?' saidthe Countess. 'Bad.' 'Indeed!' 'It is but too true.' 'De Noailles?''No.' 'Ha! D'Aiguillon?' 'You deceive yourself.' 'Who then?' 'Philip deTaverney, the Chevalier Maison-Rouge!' 'Ha!' cried the Countess, 'then Iam lost!' and she sank senseless upon the cushions.""Well done, Leontine!" exclaimed De la Pailleterie; "that is the seventhchapter I have composed since morning. Are you fatigued, my child?""Very--very weary," replied the voice, in a melancholy cadence."You shall have rest soon. Come hither. Do you see me?""Ah! you are very cruel!""I understand. Cease to be fatigued--I will it!""Ah! thanks, thanks!""Do you see me now?""I do. Oh, how handsome!"The Marquis caressed his whiskers."Where am I?""At the corner of the Place de la Concorde, near the Tuileries' gardens.Ah, you naughty man, you have been smoking!""Who is with me?""A poodle-dog," replied the voice. "What a pretty creature! he is justsnapping at a fly. Come here, poor fellow!"The poodle gave an unearthly yell, and rushed between the legs ofMonte-Christo, thereby nearly capsizing that extraordinary magician."That will do, my dear Marquis," said I, returning him the trumpet. "Iam now perfectly convinced of the truth of your assertions, and can nolonger wonder at the marvellous fertility of your pen--I beg pardon--ofyour invention. Pray, do not trouble your fair friend any further uponmy account. I have heard quite enough to satisfy me that I am in thepresence of the most remarkable man in Europe.""Pooh! this is a mere bagatelle. Any man might do the same, with aslight smattering of the occult sciences. But we were talking, if Irecollect right, about moral influence and power. I maintain that theauthors of romance and melodrama are the true masters of the age: you,on the contrary, believe in free-trade and the jargon of politicaleconomy. Is it not so?""True. We started from that point.""Well, then, would you like to see a revolution?""Not on my account, my dear Marquis. I own the interest of thespectacle, but it demands too great a sacrifice.""Not at all. In fact, I have made up my mind for a _bouleversement_ thisspring, as I seriously believe it would tend very much to therespectability of France. It must come sooner or later. Louis Philippeis well up in years, and it cannot make much difference to him. Besides,I am tired of Guizot. He gives himself airs as an historian which areabsolutely insufferable, and France can submit to it no longer. The onlydoubt I entertain is, whether this ought to be a new ministry, or anentire dynastical change.""You are the best judge. For my own part, having no interest in thematter further than curiosity, a change of ministers would satisfy me.""Ay, but there are considerations beyond that. Much may be said uponboth sides. There is danger certainly in organic changes, at the sametime we must work out by all means our full and legitimate freedom.What would you do in such a case of perplexity?"Victor Hugo's simple and romantic method of deciding between hostileopinions, as exemplified in his valuable drama of Lucrece Borgia, atonce occurred to me."Are you quite serious," said I, "in wishing to effect a change of somekind?""I am," said the Marquis, "as resolute as Prometheus on the Caucasus.""Then suppose we toss for it; and so leave the question of a new cabinetor dynasty entirely to the arbitration of fate?""A good and a pious idea!" replied the Marquis de la Pailleterie. "Hereis a five-franc piece. I shall toss, and you shall call."Up went the dollar, big with the fate of France, twirling in the eveningair."Heads for a new ministry!" cried I, and the coin fell chinking on thegravel. We both rushed up."It is tails!" said the Marquis devoutly. "Destiny! Thou hast willed it,and I am but thine instrument. Farewell, my friend; in ten days youshall hear more of this. Meantime, I must be busy. Poor Leontine! thouhast a heavy task before thee!""If you are going homewards," said I, "permit me to accompany you sofar. Our way lies together.""Not so," replied the Marquis thoughtfully. "I dine to-day at Vefour's,and in the evening I must attend the Theatre de la Porte St Martin. I amnever so much alone as in the midst of excitement. O France, France!what do I not endure for thee!"So saying, Monte-Christo extended his hand, which I wrung affectionatelywithin my own. I felt proud of the link which bound me to so high andelevated a being."Ah, my friend!" said I, "ah, my friend! there is yet time to pause.Would it not be wiser and better to forego this enterprise altogether?""You forget," replied the other solemnly. "Destiny has willed it. Go,let us each fulfil our destiny!"So saying, this remarkable man tucked the poodle under his arm, and in afew moments was lost to my view amidst the avenues of the garden of theTuileries.CHAPTER II.THE IDES OF MARCH.Several days elapsed, during which Paris maintained its customarytranquillity. The eye of a stranger could have observed very littlealteration in the demeanour of the populace; and even in the _salons_there was no strong surmise of any coming event of importance. In thecapital of France one looks for a revolution as quietly as the peopleof England await the advent of "the coming man." The event is alwaysprophesied--sometimes apparently upon the eve of being fulfilled; butthe failures are so numerous as to prevent inordinate disappointment. Inthe Chamber there were some growlings about the Reform banquet, and theusual vague threats if any attempt should be made to coerce theliberties of the people; but these demonstrations had been so oftenrepeated, that nobody had faith in any serious or critical result.Little Thiers, to be sure, blustered; and Odillon Barrot assumed pompousairs, and tried to look like a Roman citizen at our small patrioticcosmopolitan reunions; but I never could believe that either of them wasthoroughly in earnest. We all know the game that is played in Britain,where the doors of the ministerial cabinet are constructed on theprinciple of a Dutch clock. When it is fair weather, the ambitiousfigure of Lord John Russell is seen mounting guard on the outside--whenit threatens to blow, the small sentry retires, and makes way for theTamworth grenadier. Just so was it in Paris. Guizot, if wheeled from hisperch, was expected to be replaced by the smarter and more enterprisingThiers, and slumbrous Duchatel by the broad-chested and beetle-browedBarrot.At the same time I could not altogether shut my eyes to the more activestate of the press. I do not mean to aver that the mere politicalarticles exhibited more than their usual vigour; but throughout thewhole literature of the day there ran an under-current of revolutionaryfeeling which betokened wonderful unanimity. Less than usual was saidabout Marengo, Austerlitz, or even the three glorious days of July. Theminds of men were directed further back, to a period when the Republicwas all in all, when France stood isolated among the nations, great incrime, and drunken with her new-won freedom. The lapse of half a centuryis enough to throw a sort of halo around the memory of the veriestvillain and assassin. We have seen Dick Turpin and Jack Sheppard exhumedfrom their graves to be made the heroes of modern romance; and the samealchemy was now applied to the honoured ashes of Anacharsis Clootz, andother patriots of the Reign of Terror.All this was done very insidiously, and, I must say, with consummateskill. Six or seven simultaneous romances reminded the public of itsformer immunity from rule, and about as many melodramas denounced utterperdition to tyranny. I liked the fun. Man is by nature a revolutionaryanimal, especially when he has nothing to lose; and it is needless toremark that a very small portion indeed of my capital was invested inthe foreign funds.I saw little of my friend the Marquis, beyond meeting him at the usualpromenades, and bowing to him at the theatres, where he never failed topresent himself. A casual observer would have thought that De laPailleterie had no other earthly vocation than to perambulate Paris as amere votary of pleasure. Once or twice, however, towards evening, Iencountered him in his uniform of the National Guard, with fire in hiseye, haste in his step, and a settled deliberation on his forehead; andI could not help, as I gazed upon him, feeling transported backwards tothe period of Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.At length I received the expected billet, and on the appointed eveningrendered myself punctually at his house. The rooms were already morethan half filled by the company."Are the Ides of March come?" said I, pressing the proffered hand ofMonte-Christo."Come--but not yet over," he replied. "You have seen the new play whichhas produced such a marked sensation?""I have. Wonderful production! Whose is it?"A mysterious smile played upon the lip of my friend."Come," said he, "let me introduce you to a countryman, a sympathiser;one who, like you, is desirous that our poor country should participatein the blessings of the British loom. Mr Hutton Bagsby--Mr Dunshunner."Bagsby was a punchy man, with a bald head, and a nose which betokenedhis habitual addiction to the fiery grape of Portugal."Servant, sir!" said he. "Understand you're a free-trader, supporter ofCobden's principles, and inclined to go the whole hog. Glad to see a manof common understanding here. Damme, sir, when I speak to these Frenchfellows about calico, they begin to talk about fraternity; which, as Itake it, means eating frogs, for I don't pretend to understand theiroutlandish gibberish.""Every nation has its hobby, you know, Mr Bagsby," I replied. "Weconsider ourselves more practical than the French, and stick to the mainchance; they, on the other hand, are occupied with social grievances,and what they call the rights of labour.""Rights of labour!" exclaimed Bagsby. "Hanged if I think labour has gotany rights at all. Blow all protection! say I. Look after the interestsof the middle classes, and let capital have its swing. As for thoseconfounded working fellows, who cares about them? We don't, I can answerfor it. When I was in the League, we wanted to bring corn down, in orderto get work cheaper; and, now that we've got it, do you think we willstand any rubbish about rights? These French fellows are a poor set;they don't understand sound commercial principles.""Ha! Lamoriciere!" said our host, accosting a general officer who justthen entered the apartment; "how goes it? Any result from to-day'sdemonstration at the Chamber?""_Ma foi!_ I should say there is. The banquets are forbidden. Thereis a talk about impeaching ministers; and, in the mean time, theartillery-waggons are rumbling through the streets in scores.""Then our old friend Macaire is likely to make a stand?""It is quite possible that the respectable gentleman may try it," saidthe commandant, regaling himself with a pinch. "By the way, the NationalGuard must turn out to-morrow early. The _rappel_ will be beat bydaybreak. There is a stir already in the Boulevards; and, as I drovehere, I saw the people in thousands reading the evening journals bytorch-light.""Such is liberty!" exclaimed a little gentleman, who had been listeningeagerly to the General. "Such is liberty! she holds her bivouac atnightfall by the torch of reason; and, on the morrow, the dawn is redwith the brightness of the sun of Austerlitz!"A loud hum of applause followed the enunciation of this touchingsentiment."Our friend is great to-night," whispered Monte-Christo; "and hemay be greater to-morrow. If Louis Philippe yields, he may beprime-minister--if firing begins, I have a shrewd notion he won'tbe anywhere. Ah, Monsieur Albert! welcome from Cannes. We have beenexpecting you for some time, and you have arrived not a moment toosoon!"The individual thus accosted was of middle height, advanced age, andvery plainly dressed. He wore a rusty grey surtout, trousers of plaidcheck, and the lower part of his countenance was buried in the foldsof a black cravat. The features were remarkable; and, somehow or other,I thought that I had seen them before. The small grey eyes rolledrestlessly beneath their shaggy pent-house; the cheek-bones wereremarkably prominent; a deep furrow was cut on either side of the mouth;and the nose, which was of singular conformation, seemed endowed withspontaneous life, and performed a series of extraordinary mechanicalrevolutions. Altogether, the appearance of the man impressed me with theidea of strong, ill-regulated energy, and of that restless activitywhich is emphatically the mother of mischief.Monsieur Albert did not seem very desirous of courting attention. Herather winked than replied to our host, threw a suspicious look atBagsby, who was staring him in the face, honoured me with a survey, andthen edged away into the crowd. I felt rather curious to know somethingmore about him."Pray, my dear Marquis," said I, "who may this Monsieur Albert be?""Albert! Is it possible that you do not--but I forget. I can only tellyou, _mon cher_, that this Monsieur Albert is a very remarkable man, andwill be heard of hereafter among the ranks of the people. You seem tosuspect a mystery? Well, well! There are mysteries in all great dramas,such as that which is now going on around us; so for the present youmust be content to know my friend as simple Albert, _ouvrier_.""Hanged if I haven't seen that fellow in the black choker before!" saidMr Bagsby; "or, at all events, I've seen his double. I say, MrDunshunner, who is the chap that came in just now?""I really cannot tell, Mr Bagsby. Monte-Christo calls him simply MrAlbert, a workman.""That's their fraternity, I suppose! If I thought he was an operative,I'd be off in the twinkling of a billy-roller. But it's all a hoax. Doyou know, I think he's very like a certain noble--"Here an aide-de-camp, booted and spurred, dashed into the apartment."General! you are wanted immediately: the _emeute_ has begun, half Parisis rushing to arms, and they are singing the Marseillaise through thestreets!""Anything else?" said the General, who, with inimitable _sang froid_,was sipping a tumbler of orgeat."Guizot has resigned.""Bravo!" cried the little gentleman above referred to--and he cut acaper that might have done credit to Vestris. "Bravo! there is somechance for capable men now.""I was told," continued the aide-de-camp, "as I came along, that CountMole had been sent for.""Mole! bah! an imbecile!" muttered the diminutive statesman. "It wasnot worth a revolution to produce such a miserable result.""And what say the people?" asked our host."_Cela ne suffit pas!_""_Ah, les bons citoyens! Ah! les braves garcons! Je les connais!_" Andhere the candidate for office executed a playful pirouette."Nevertheless," said Lamoriciere, "we must do our duty.""Which is?" interrupted De la Pailleterie."To see the play played out, at all events," replied the militarypatriot; "and therefore, messieurs, I have the honour to wish you alla very good evening.""But stop, General," cried two or three voices: "what would you adviseus to do?""In the first place, gentlemen," replied the warrior, and his words werelistened to with the deepest attention, "I would recommend you, as thestreets are in a disturbed state, to see the ladies home. That dutyperformed, you will probably be guided by your own sagacity and tastes.The National Guard will, of course, muster at their quarters. Gentlemenwho are of an architectural genius will probably be gratified by anopportunity of inspecting several barricades in different parts of thecity; and I have always observed, that behind a wall of this descriptionthere is little danger from a passing bullet. Others, who are fond offireworks, may possibly find an opportunity of improving themselves inthe pyrotechnic art. But I detain you, gentlemen, I fear unjustifiably;and as I observe that the firing has begun, I have the honour once moreto renew my salutations."And in fact a sharp fusillade was heard without, towards the conclusionof the General's harangue. The whole party was thrown into confusion;several ladies showed symptoms of fainting, and were incontinentlyreceived in the arms of their respective cavaliers.The aspiring statesman had disappeared. Whether he got under a sofa, orup the chimney, I do not know, but he vanished utterly from my eyes.Monte-Christo was in a prodigious state of excitement."I have kept my word, you see," he said: "this may be misconstrued inhistory, but I call upon you to bear witness that the revolution was atriumph of genius. O France!" continued he, filling his pocket withmacaroons, "the hour of thine emancipation has come!"Observing a middle-aged lady making towards the door without maleescort, I thought it incumbent upon me to tender my services, incompliance with the suggestions of the gallant Lamoriciere. I was agood deal obstructed, however, by Mr Hutton Bagsby, who, in extremealarm, was cleaving to the skirts of my garments."Can I be of the slightest assistance in offering my escort to madame?"said I with a respectful bow.The lady looked at me with unfeigned surprise."Monsieur mistakes, I believe," said she quietly. "Perhaps he thinksI carry a fan. Look here"--and she exhibited the butt of an enormoushorse-pistol. "The authoress of Lelia knows well how to command respectfor herself.""George Sand!" I exclaimed in amazement."The same, Monsieur; who will be happy to meet you this evening at anearly hour, behind the barricade of the Rue Montmartre.""O good Lord!" cried Mr Hutton Bagsby, "here is a precious kettle offish! They are firing out yonder like mad; they'll be breaking into thehouses next, and we'll all be murdered to a man.""Do not be alarmed, Mr Bagsby; this is a mere political revolution. Thepeople have no animosity whatever to strangers.""Haven't they? I wish you had seen the way the waiter looked thismorning at my dressing-case. They'd tie me up to the lamp-post at oncefor the sake of my watch and seals! And I don't know a single word oftheir bloody language. I wish the leaders of the League had been hangedbefore they sent me here.""What! then you are here upon a mission?""Yes, I'm a delegate, as they call it. O Lord, I wish somebody wouldtake me home!""Where do you reside, Mr Bagsby?""I don't know the name of the street, and the man who brought me herehas just gone away with a gun! Oh dear! what shall I do?"I really felt considerably embarrassed. By this time Monte-Christo andmost of his guests had departed, and I knew no one to whom I couldconsign the unfortunate and terrified free-trader. I sincerely pitiedpoor Bagsby, who was eminently unfitted for this sort of work; and wasjust about to offer him an asylum in my own apartments, when I felt myshoulder touched, and, turning round, recognised the intelligent thoughsarcastic features of Albert the ouvrier."You are both English?" he said in a perfectly pure dialect. "_Eh bien_,I like the English, and I wish they understood us better. You are indifficulties. Well, I will assist. Come with me. You may depend uponthe honour of a member of the Institute. Workman as I am, I have someinfluence here. Come--is it a bargain? Only one caution, gentlemen:remember where you are, and that the watchwords for the night are_fraternite_, _egalite!_ You comprehend? Let us lose no time, but followme."So saying, he strode to the door. Bagsby said not a word, but clutchedmy arm. But as we descended the staircase, he muttered in my ear as wellas the chattering of his teeth would allow:--"It is _him_--I am perfectly certain! Who on earth would have believedthis! O Lord Harry!"CHAPTER III.THE BARRICADES.The streets were in a state of wild commotion. Everywhere we encounteredcrowds of truculent working fellows, dressed in blouses, and armed withmuskets, who were pressing towards the Boulevards. Sometimes they passedus in hurried groups; at other times the way was intercepted by aregular procession bearing torches, and singing the war-hymn ofMarseilles. Those who judge of the physical powers of the French peopleby the specimens they usually encounter in the streets of Paris, arecertain to form an erroneous estimate. A more powerful and athletic racethan the workmen is scarcely to be found in Europe; and it was not, Iconfess, without a certain sensation of terror, that I found myselflaunched into the midst of this wild and uncontrollable mob, whosefurious gestures testified to their excitement, and whose brawny armswere bared, and ready for the work of slaughter.Considering the immense military force which was known to be stationedin and around Paris, it seemed to me quite miraculous that no effectivedemonstration had been made. Possibly the troops might be drawn up insome of the wider streets or squares, but hitherto we had encounterednone. Several bodies of the National Guard, it is true, occasionallywent by; but these did not seem to be considered as part of the militaryforce, nor did they take any active steps towards the quelling of thedisturbance. At times, however, the sound of distant firing warned usthat the struggle had begun.Poor Bagsby clung to my arm in a perfect paroxysm of fear. I hadcautioned him, as we went out, on no account to open his lips, or tomake any remarks which might serve to betray his origin. The creaturewas quite docile, and followed in the footsteps of Monsieur Albert likea lamb. That mysterious personage strode boldly forward, chuckling tohimself as he went, and certainly exhibited a profound knowledge of thetopography of Paris. Once or twice we were stopped and questioned; buta few cabalistic words from our leader solved all difficulties, and wewere allowed to proceed amidst general and vociferous applause.At length, as we approached the termination of a long and narrow street,we heard a tremendous shouting, and the unmistakable sounds of conflict."Here come the Municipal Guards!" cried M. Albert, quickly. "Thesefellows fight like demons, and have no regard for the persons of thepeople. Follow me, gentlemen, this way, and speedily, if you do not wishto be sliced like blanc-mange!"With these words the ouvrier dived into a dark lane, and we lost no timein following his example. I had no idea whatever of our locality, butit seemed evident that we were in one of the worst quarters of Paris.Every lamp in the lane had been broken, so that we could form no opinionof its character from vision. It was, however, ankle-deep of mud--acircumstance by no means likely to prolong the existence of my glazedboots. Altogether, I did not like the situation; and had it not beenfor the guarantee as to M. Albert's respectability, implied from hisacquaintance with Monte-Christo, I think I should have preferredtrusting myself to the tender mercies of the Municipal Guard. As forpoor Bagsby, his teeth were going like castanets."You seem cold, sir," said Albert, in a deep and husky voice, as wereached a part of the lane apparently fenced in by dead walls. "This isa wild night for a Manchester weaver to be wandering in the streets ofParis!""O Lord! you know me, then?" groaned Bagsby, with a piteous accent."Know you? ha, ha!" replied the other, with the laugh of the thirdruffian in a melodrama; "who does not know citizen Bagsby, thedelegate--Bagsby, the great champion of the League--Bagsby, themillionaire!""It's not time, upon my soul!" cried Bagsby; "I am nothing of the kind.I haven't a hundred pounds in the world that I can properly call myown.""The world wrongs you, then," said Albert; "and, to say the truth, youkeep up the delusion by carrying so much bullion about you. I shouldsay, now, that the chain round your neck must be worth some fiftylouis."Bagsby made no reply, but clutched my arm with the grasp of a cockatoo."This is a very dreary place," continued Albert, in a tone that mighthave emanated from a sepulchre. "Last winter three men were robbed andmurdered in this very passage. There is a conduit to the Seine below,and I saw the bodies next morning in the Morgue, with their throats cutfrom ear to ear!"From a slight interjectional sound, I concluded that Bagsby was praying."These," said the ouvrier, "are the walls of a slaughter-house: on theother side is the shed where they ordinarily keep the guillotine. Haveyou seen that implement yet, Mr Bagsby?""Mercy on us, no!" groaned the delegate. "Oh, Mr Albert, whoever youare, do take us out of this place, or I am sure I shall lose my reason!If you want my watch, say so at once, and, upon my word, you areheartily welcome.""Harkye, sirrah," said Monsieur Albert: "I have more than half a mind toleave you here all night for your consummate impertinence. I knew youfrom the very first to be a thorough poltroon; but I shall find a propermeans of chastising you. Come along, sir; we are past the lane now, andat a place where your hands may be better employed for the liberties ofthe people than your head ever was in inventing task-work at home."We now emerged into an open court, lighted by a solitary lamp. It wasapparently deserted, but on a low whistle from Monsieur Albert, sometwenty or thirty individuals in blouses rushed forth from the doorwaysand surrounded us. I own I did not feel remarkably comfortable at themoment; for although it was clear to me that our guide had merelybeen amusing himself at the expense of Bagsby, the apparition ofhis confederates was rather sudden and startling. As for Bagsby, heevidently expected no better fate than an immediate conduct to theblock."You come late, _mon capitaine_," said a bloused veteran, armed with amattock. "They have the start of us already in the Rue des PetitsChamps.""Never mind, _grognard_! we are early enough for the ball," said M.Albert. "Have you everything ready as I desired?""All ready--spades, levers, pickaxes, and the rest.""Arms?""Enough to serve our purpose, and we shall soon have more. But who arethese with you?""Fraternisers--two bold Englishmen, who are ready to die for freedom!""_Vivent les Anglais, et a bas les tyrans!_" shouted the blouses."This citizen," continued Albert, indicating the unhappy Bagsby, "is aCobdenist and a delegate. He has sworn to remain at the barricades untilthe last shot is fired, and to plant the red banner of the emancipatedpeople upon its summit. His soul is thirsting for fraternity. Brothers!open to him your arms."Hereupon a regular scramble took place for the carcass of Mr HuttonBagsby. Never surely was so much love lavished upon any human creature.Patriot after patriot bestowed on him the full-flavoured hug offraternity, and he emerged from their grasp very much in the tatteredcondition of a scarecrow."Give the citizen delegate a blouse and a pickaxe," quoth Albert, "andthen for the barricade. You have your orders--execute them. Up with thepavement, down with the trees; fling over every omnibus and cab thatcomes in your way, and fight to the last drop of your blood for Franceand her freedom. Away!"With a tremendous shout the patriots rushed off, hurrying Bagsby alongwith them. The unfortunate man offered no resistance, but the agonydepicted on his face might have melted the heart of a millstone.Albert remained silent until the group were out of sight, and then burstinto a peal of laughter."That little man," said he, "will gather some useful experiencesto-night that may last him as long as he lives. As for you, MrDunshunner, whose name and person are well known to me, I presume youhave no ambition to engage in any such architectural constructions?"I modestly acknowledged my aversion to practical masonry."Well, then," said the ouvrier, "I suppose you are perfectly competentto take care of yourself. There will be good fun in the streets, if youchoose to run the risk of seeing it; at the same time there is safetyin stone walls. 'Gad, I think this will astonish plain John! There'snothing like it in his _Lives of the Chancellors_. I don't want,however, to see our friend the delegate absolutely sacrificed. Will youdo me the favour to inquire for him to-morrow at the barricade downthere? I will answer for it that he does not make his escape beforethen; and now for Ledru Rollin!"With these words, and a friendly nod, the eccentric artisan departed, ata pace which showed how little his activity had been impaired by years.Filled with painful and conflicting thoughts, I followed the course ofanother street which led me to the Rue Rivoli.Here I had a capital opportunity of witnessing the progress of therevolution. The street was crowded with the people shouting, yelling,and huzzaing; and a large body of the National Guard, drawn upimmediately in front of me, seemed to be in high favour. Indeed, I wasnot surprised at this, on discovering that the officer in command was noless a person than my illustrious friend De la Pailleterie. He looked aswarlike as a Lybian lion, though it was impossible to comprehend whatparticular section of the community were the objects of his sublimeanger. Indeed, it was rather difficult to know what the gentlemen inblouses wanted. Some were shouting for reform, as if that were atangible article which could be handed them from a window; othersdemanded the abdication of ministers--rather unreasonably, I thought,since at that moment there was no vestige of a ministry in France;whilst the most practical section of the mob was clamorous for thehead of Guizot. Presently the shakos and bright bayonets of a largedetachment of infantry were seen approaching, amidst vehement criesof "Vive la Ligne!" They marched up to the National Guard, who stillmaintained their ranks. The leading officer looked puzzled."Who are these?" he said, pointing with his sword to the Guard."I have the honour to inform Monsieur," said Monte-Christo, steppingforward, "that these are the second legion of the National Guard!""Vive la Garde Nationale!" cried the officer."Vive la Ligne!" reciprocated the Marquis.Both gentlemen then saluted, and interchanged snuff-boxes, amidsttremendous cheering from the populace."And who are these?" continued the officer, pointing to the blouses onthe pavement."These are the people," replied Monte-Christo."They must disperse. My orders are peremptory," said the regular."The National Guard will protect them. Monsieur, respect the people!""They must disperse," repeated the officer."They shall not," replied Monte-Christo.The moment was critical."In that case," replied the officer, after a pause, "I shall bestfulfil my duty by wishing Monsieur a good evening.""You are a brave fellow!" cried the Marquis, sheathing his sabre; and ina moment the warriors were locked in a brotherly embrace.The effect was electric and instantaneous. "Let us all fraternise!" wasthe cry; and regulars, nationals, and blouses, rushed into each others'arms. The union was complete. Jacob and Esau coalesced without theformality of an explanation. Ammunition was handed over by the troopswithout the slightest scruple, and in return many bottles of _vinordinaire_ were produced for the refreshment of the military. No man whowitnessed that scene could have any doubt as to the final result of themovement.Presently, however, a smart fusillade was heard to the right. The cryarose, "They are assassinating the people! to the barricades! to thebarricades!" and the whole multitude swept vehemently forward towardsthe place of contest. Unfortunately, in my anxiety to behold therencontre in which my friend bore so distinguished a part, I had presseda little further forwards than was prudent, and I now found myself inthe midst of an infuriated gang of workmen, and urged irresistiblyonwards to the nearest barricade."Thou hast no arms, comrade!" cried a gigantic butcher, who strodebeside me armed with an enormous axe; "here--take this;" and he thrusta sabre into my hand; "take this, and strike home for _la Patrie_!"I muttered my acknowledgments for the gift, and tried to look as like apatriot as possible."_Tete de Robespierre!_" cried another. "This is better than payingtaxes! _A bas la Garde Municipale! a bas tous les tyrans!_""_Tete de Brissot!_" exclaimed I, in return, thinking it no unwise planto invoke the Manes of some of the earlier heroes. This was a slightmistake."_Quoi? Girondin?_" cried the butcher, with a ferocious scowl."_Non; corps de Marat!_" I shouted."_Bon! embrasse-moi donc, camarade!_" said the butcher, and so wereached the barricade.Here the game was going on in earnest. The barricade had been thrownup hastily and imperfectly, and a considerable body of the MunicipalGuard--who, by the way, behaved throughout with much intrepidity--wasattempting to dislodge the rioters. In fact, they had almost succeeded.Some ten of the insurgents, who were perched upon the top of the pile,had been shot down, and no one seemed anxious to supply their place onthat bad eminence. In vain my friend the butcher waved his axe, andshouted, "_En avant!_" A considerable number of voices, indeed, tookup the cry, but a remarkable reluctance was exhibited in setting thesalutary example. A few minutes more, and the passage would have beencleared; when all of a sudden, from the interior of a cabriolet, whichformed a sort of parapet to the embankment, emerged a ghastly figure,streaming with gore, and grasping the _drapeau rouge_. I never was morepetrified in my life--there could be no doubt of the man--it was HuttonBagsby!For a moment he stood gazing upon the tossing multitude beneath. Therewas a brief pause, and even the soldiers, awed by his intrepidity,forbore to fire. At last, however, they raised their muskets; when,with a hoarse scream, Bagsby leaped from the barricade, and alighteduninjured on the street. Had Mars descended in person to lead theinsurrection, he could not have done better."_Ah, le brave Anglais! Ah, le depute intrepide! A la rescousse!_" wasthe cry, and a torrent of human beings rushed headlong over thebarricade.No power on earth could have resisted that terrific charge. TheMunicipal Guards were scattered like chaff before the wind; some werecut down, and others escaped under cover of the ranks of the Nationals.Like the rest, I had leaped the embankment; but not being anxious todistinguish myself in single combat, I paused at the spot where Bagsbyhad fallen. There I found the illustrious delegate stretched upon theground, still grasping the glorious colours. I stooped down and examinedthe body, but I could discover no wound. The blood that stained hisforehead was evidently not his own.I loosened his neckcloth to give him air, but still there were no signsof animation. A crowd soon gathered around us--the victors werereturning from the combat."He will never fight more!" said the author of the _Mysteries of Paris_,whom I now recognised among the combatants. "He has led us on for thelast time to victory! Alas for the adopted child of France! _Un vraiheros! II est mort sur le champ de bataille!_ Messieurs, I propose thatwe decree for our departed comrade the honours of a public funeral!"CHAPTER IV.THE TUILERIES."How do you feel yourself to-day, Mr Bagsby?" said I, as I entered theapartment of that heroic individual on the following morning; "you madea very close shave of it, I can tell you. Eugene Sue wanted to have youstretched upon a shutter, and carried in procession as a victim throughall the streets of Paris.""Victim indeed!" replied Bagsby, manipulating the small of his back,"I've been quite enough victimised already. Hanged if I don't get thatvillain Albert impeached when I reach England, that's all! I workedamong them with the pickaxe till my arms were nearly broken, and theonly thanks I got was to be shot at like a popinjay.""Nay, Mr Bagsby, you have covered yourself with glory. Every one saysthat but for you the barricade would inevitably have been carried.""They might have carried it to the infernal regions for aught that Icared," replied Bagsby. "Catch me fraternising again with any of them;a disreputable set of scoundrels with never a shirt to their back.""You forget, my dear sir," said I: "Mr Cobden is of opinion that theyare the most affectionate and domesticated people on the face of theearth.""Did Cobden say that?" cried Bagsby: "then he's a greater humbug than Itook him to be, and that is saying not a little. He'll never get anothertestimonial out of me, I can tell you. But pray, how did I come here?""Why, you were just about to be treated to a public funeral, when veryfortunately you exhibited some symptoms of resuscitation, and a coupleof hairy patriots carried you to my lodgings. Your exertions had beentoo much for you. I must confess, Mr Bagsby, I had no idea that you wereso bloodthirsty a personage.""Me bloodthirsty!" cried Bagsby; "Lord bless you! I am like to faintwhenever I cut myself in shaving. Guns and swords are my perfectabomination, and I don't think I could bring myself to fire at asparrow.""Come, come! you do yourself injustice. I shall never forget thebrilliant manner in which you charged down the barricade.""All I can tell you is, that I was deucedly glad to hide myself in oneof the empty coaches. But when a bullet came splash through the panelwithin two inches of my ear, I found the place was getting too hot tohold me, and scrambled out. I had covered myself with one of their redrags by way of concealment, and I suppose I brought it out with me. Asto jumping down, you will allow it was full time to do that, when fiftyfellows were taking a deliberate aim with their guns.""You are too modest, Mr Bagsby; and, notwithstanding all yourdisclaimers, you have gained a niche in history as a hero. But come;this may be a busy day, and it is already late. Do you think you canmanage any breakfast?""I'll try," said Bagsby; and, to do him justice, he did.Our meal concluded, I proposed a ramble, in order to ascertain theprogress of events, of which both of us were thoroughly ignorant.Bagsby, however, was extremely adverse to leaving the house. He had astrong impression that he would be again kidnapped, and pressed intoactive service; in which case he affirmed that he would incontinentlygive up the ghost."Can't you stay comfortably here," said he, "and let's have a littlebottled porter? These foreign chaps can surely fight their own battleswithout you or me; and that leads me to ask if you know the cause of allthis disturbance. Hanged if I understand anything about it!""I believe it mainly proceeds from the King having forbidden some of thedeputies to dine together in public.""You don't say so!" cried Bagsby: "what an old fool he must be! Blowedif I wouldn't have taken the chair in person, and sent them twelve dozenof champagne to drink my health.""Kings, Mr Bagsby, are rarely endowed with a large proportion of suchsagacity as yours. But really we must go forth and look a little aboutus. It is past mid-day, and I cannot hear any firing. You may rely uponit that the contest has been settled in one way or another--either thepeople have been appeased, or, what is more likely, the troops havesided with them. We must endeavour to obtain some information.""You may do as you like," said Bagsby, "but my mind is made up. I'm offfor Havre this blessed afternoon.""My dear sir, you cannot. No passports can be obtained just now, and themob has taken up the railroads.""What an idiot I was ever to come here!" groaned Bagsby. "Mercy on me!must I continue in this den of thieves, whether I will or no?""I am afraid there is no alternative. But you judge the Parisians toohastily, Mr Bagsby. I perceive they have respected your watch.""Ay, but you heard what that chap said about the slaughter-house lane. Ideclare he almost frightened me into fits. But where are you going?""Out, to be sure. If you choose to remain--""Not I. Who knows but they may take a fancy to seek for me here, andcarry me away again! I won't part with the only Englishman I know inParis, though I think it would be more sensible to remain quietly wherewe are."We threw ourselves into the stream of people which was rapidly settingin towards the Tuileries. Great events seemed to have happened, or atall events to be on the eve of completion. The troops were nowhere to beseen. They had vanished from the city like magic."_Bon jour_, Citoyen Bagsby," said a harsh voice, immediately behind us."I hear high accounts of your valour yesterday at the barricades. Allowme to congratulate you on your first revolutionary experiment."I turned round, and encountered the sarcastic smile of M. Albert theouvrier. He was rather better dressed than on the previous evening, andhad a tricolored sash bound around his waist. With him was a crowd ofpersons evidently in attendance."Should you like, Mr Bagsby, to enter the service of the Republic? forsuch, I have the honour to inform you, France is now," continued theouvrier. "We shall need a few practical heads--""Oh dear! I knew what it would all come to!" groaned Bagsby."Don't misapprehend me--I mean heads to assist us in our new commercialarrangements. Now, as free-trade has succeeded so remarkably well inBritain, perhaps you would not object to communicate some of yourexperiences to M. Cremieux, who is now my colleague?""Your colleague, M. Albert?" said I."Exactly so. I have the honour to be one of the members of theProvisional Government of France.""Am I in my senses or not?" muttered Bagsby. "Oh, sir, whoever you are,do be a good fellow for once, and let me get home! I promise you, Ishall not say a word about this business on the other side of theChannel.""Far be it from me to lay any restraint upon your freedom of speech, MrBagsby. So, then, I conclude you refuse? Well, be it so. After all, Idaresay Cremieux will get on very well without you.""But pray, M. Albert--one word," said I. "You mentioned a republic--""I did. It has been established for an hour. Louis Philippe hasabdicated, and in all probability is by this time half a league beyondthe barrier. The Duchess of Orleans came down with her son to theChamber of Deputies, and I really believe there would have been aregency; for the gallantry of France was moved, and Barrot wasdetermined on the point. Little Ledru Rollin, however, saved us fromhalf measures. Rollin is a clever fellow, with the soul of aRobespierre; and, seeing how matters were likely to go, he quietlyslipped to the door, and admitted a select number of our friends fromthe barricades. That put a stop to the talking. You have no idea howquiet gentlemen become in the presence of a mob with loaded muskets.Their hearts failed them; the deputies gradually withdrew, and arepublic was proclaimed by the sovereign will of the people. I am juston my way to the Hotel de Ville, to assist in consolidating thegovernment.""_Bon voyage_, M. Albert!""Oh, we shall do it, sure enough! But here we are near the Tuileries.Perhaps, gentlemen, you would like to enjoy the amusements which aregoing on yonder, and to drink prosperity to the new Republic in a glassof Louis Philippe's old Clos Vougeot. If so, do not let me detain you.Adieu!" And, with a spasmodic twitch of his nose, the eccentric ouvrierdeparted."Well! what things one does see abroad, to be sure!" said Bagsby: "Irecollect him quite well at the time of the Reform Bill--""Hush, my dear Bagsby!" said I, "this is not the moment nor the placefor any reminiscences of the kind."Certainly the aspect of what was going forward in front of the Tuilerieswas enough to drive all minor memories from the head of any man. A hugebonfire was blazing in the midst of the Square opposite the Place duCarrousel, and several thousands of the populace were dancing round itlike demons. It was fed by the royal carriages, the furniture of thestate-rooms, and every combustible article which could in any way beidentified with the fallen dynasty. The windows of the palace were flungopen, and hangings, curtains, and tapestries of silk and golden tissue,were pitched into the square amidst shouts of glee that would havebroken the heart of an upholsterer. It was the utter recklessness ofdestruction. Yet, with all this, there was a certain appearance ofhonesty preserved. The people might destroy to any amount they pleased,but they were not permitted to appropriate. The man who smashed a mirroror shattered a costly vase into flinders was a patriot,--he who helpedhimself to an inkstand was denounced as an ignominious thief. I saw onepoor devil, whose famished appearance bore miserable testimony to hispoverty, arrested and searched; a pair of paste buckles was found uponhim, and he was immediately conducted to the gardens, and shot by acouple of gentlemen who, five minutes before, had deliberately slit somevaluable pictures into ribbons! Every moment the crowd was receivingaccession from without, and the bonfire materials from within. At last,amidst tremendous acclamations, the throne itself was catapulted intothe square, and the last symbol of royalty reduced to a heap of ashes.The whole scene was so extremely uninviting that I regretted having comeso far, and suggested to Bagsby the propriety of an immediate retreat.This, however, was not so easy. Several of the citizens who were nowdancing democratic polkas round the embers, had been very activepartisans at the barricade on the evening before, and, as ill-luck wouldhave it, recognised their revivified champion."_Trois mille rognons!_" exclaimed my revolutionary friend the butcher;"here's the brave little Englishman that led us on so gallantly againstthe Municipal Guard! How is it with thee, my fire-eater, my stoutswallower of bullets? Art thou sad that there is no more work for theeto do? Cheer up, citizen! we shall be at the frontiers before long; andthen who knows but the Republic may reward thee with the baton of amarshal of France!""_Plus de marechaux!_" cried a truculent chiffonier, who was truculentlypicking a marrow-bone with his knife. "Such fellows are worth nothingexcept to betray the people. I waited to have a shot at old Soultyesterday, but the rascal would not show face!""Never mind him, citizen," said the butcher, "we all know PerePomme-de-terre. But thou lookest pale! Art thirsty? Come with me, and Iwill show thee where old Macaire keeps his cellar. France will notgrudge a flask to so brave a patriot as thyself.""Ay, ay! to the cellar--to the cellar!" exclaimed some fifty voices."_Silence, mes enfants!_" cried the butcher, who evidently had alreadyreconnoitred the interior of the subterranean vaults. "Let us doall things in order. As Citizen Lamartine remarked, let virtue gohand in hand with liberty, and let us apply ourselves seriously tothe consummation of this great work. We have now an opportunity offraternising with the world. We see amongst us an Englishman who lastnight devoted his tremendous energies to France. We thought he hadfallen, and were about to give him public honours. Let us not be moreunmindful of the living than the dead. Here he stands, and I nowpropose that he be carried on the shoulders of the people to theroyal--_peste_!--I mean the republican cellar, and that we there drinkto the confusion of all rank, and the union of all nations in the bondsof universal brotherhood!""Agreed! agreed!" shouted the mob; and for the second time Bagsbyunderwent the ceremony of entire fraternisation. He was then hoistedupon the shoulders of some half-dozen patriots, notwithstanding amelancholy howl, by which he intended to express disapprobation of thewhole proceeding. I was pressed into the service as interpreter, andtook care to attribute his disclaimer solely to an excess of modesty."Thou also wert at the barricade last night," said the butcher. "Thou,too, hast struck a blow for France. Come along. Let us cement with winethe fraternity that originated in blood!"So saying, he laid hold of my arm, and we all rushed towards theTuileries. I would have given a trifle to have been lodged at thatmoment in the filthiest tenement of the Cowcaddens; but anything likeresistance was of course utterly out of the question. In we thronged, atumultuous rabble of men and women, through the portal of the Kings ofFrance, across the halls, and along the galleries, all of them bearingalready lamentable marks of violence, outrage, and desecration. Here wasa picture of Louis Philippe, a masterpiece by Horace Vernet, literallyriddled with balls; there a statue of some prince, decapitated by theblow of a hammer; and in another place the fragments of a magnificentvase, which had been the gift of an emperor. Crowds of people weresitting or lying in the state apartments, eating, drinking, smoking, andsinging obscene ditties, or wantonly but deliberately pursuing the workof dismemberment. And but a few hours before, this had been the palaceof the King of the Barricades!Down we went to the cellars, which by this time were tolerably clear,as most of the previous visitors had preferred the plan of enjoying theabstracted fluid in the upper and loftier apartments. But such wasnot the view of Monsieur Destripes the butcher, or of his friendPomme-de-terre. These experienced bacchanals preferred remaining atheadquarters, on the principle that the _seance_ ought to be declaredpermanent. Bagsby, as the individual least competent to enforce order,was called to the chair, and seated upon a kilderkin of Bordeaux, witha spigot as the emblem of authority. Then began a scene of brutal andundisguised revelry. Casks were tapped for a single sample, and theircontents allowed to run out in streams upon the floor. Bottles weresmashed in consequence of the exceeding scarcity of cork-screws, and thefinest vintage of the Cote d'Or and of Champagne were poured like waterdown throats hitherto unconscious of any such generous beverage.I need not dwell upon what followed--indeed I could not possibly dojustice to the eloquence of M. Pomme-de-terre, or the accomplishmentsof several _poissardes_, who had accompanied us in our expedition, andnow favoured us with sundry erotic ditties, popular in the Faubourg StAntoine. With these ladies Bagsby seemed very popular; indeed, they hadformed themselves into a sort of body-guard around his person.Sick of the whole scene, I availed myself of the first opportunity toescape from that tainted atmosphere; and, after traversing most of thestate apartments and several corridors, I found myself in a part of thepalace which had evidently been occupied by some of those who were nowfleeing as exiles towards a foreign land. The hand of the spoiler alsohad been here, but he was gone. It was a miserable thing to witness thedesolation of these apartments. The bed whereon a princess had lain thenight before, was now tossed and tumbled by some rude ruffian, thecurtains were torn down, the gardes-de-robe broken open, and a hundredarticles of female apparel and luxury were scattered carelessly upon thefloor. The setting sun of February gleamed through the broken windows,and rendered the heartless work of spoliation more distinct andapparent. I picked up one handkerchief, still wet, it might be withtears, and on the corner of it was embroidered a royal cypher.I, who was not an insurgent, almost felt that, in penetrating throughthese rooms, I was doing violence to the sanctity of misfortune. Where,on the coming night, might rest the head of her who, a few hours before,had lain upon that pillow of down? For the shelter of what obscure andstifling hut might she be forced to exchange the noble ceiling of apalace? This much I had gathered, that all the royal family had notsucceeded in making their escape. Some of the ladies had been seen, withno protectors by their side, shrieking in the midst of the crowd; butthe cry of woe was that day too general to attract attention, and itseemed that the older chivalry of France had passed away. Where was thehusband at the hour when the wife was struggling in that rout of terror?I turned into a side-passage, and opened another door. It was a smallroom which apparently had escaped observation. Everything here boretoken of the purity of feminine taste. The little bed was untouched:there were flowers in the window, a breviary upon the table, and acrucifix suspended on the wall. The poor young inmate of this place hadbeen also summoned from her sanctuary, never more to enter it again. AsI came in, a little bird in a cage raised a loud twittering, and beganto beat itself against the wires. The seed-box was empty, and the lastdrop of water had been finished. In a revolution such as this, it is thefate of favourites to be neglected.The poor thing was perishing of hunger. I had no food to give it, but Iopened the cage and the window, and set it free. With a shrill note ofjoy, it darted off to the trees, happier than its mistress, now thrownupon the mercy of a rude and selfish world. I looked down upon the scenebeneath. The river was flowing tranquilly to the sea; the first breezesof spring were moving through the trees, just beginning to burgeon andexpand; the sun was sinking amidst the golden clouds tranquilly--no signin heaven or earth betokened that on that day a mighty monarchy hadfallen. The roar of Paris was hushed; the work of desolation was over;and on the morrow, its first day would dawn upon the infant Republic."May Heaven shelter the unfortunate!" I exclaimed; "and may my nativeland be long preserved from the visitation of a calamity like this!"CHAPTER V.TWO PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENTS.I awoke upon the morrow impressed with that strange sensation which isso apt to occur after the first night's repose in a new and unfamiliarlocality. I could not for some time remember where I was. The events ofthe two last days beset me like the recollections of an unhealthy dream,produced by the agency of opiates; and it was with difficulty I couldpersuade myself that I had passed the night beneath the roof of thefamous Tuileries."After all," thought I, "the event may be an interesting, but it is byno means an unusual one, in this transitory world of ours. Louis XVI.,Napoleon, Charles X., Louis Philippe, and Dunshunner, have by turnsoccupied the palace, and none of them have had the good fortune to leaveit in perpetuity to their issue. Since abdication is the order of theday, I shall even follow the example of my royal predecessors, and boltwith as much expedition as possible; for, to say the truth, I am gettingtired of this turmoil, and I think, with Sir Kenneth of Scotland, thatthe waters of the Clyde would sound pleasant and grateful in mine ear."A very slight toilet sufficed for the occasion, and I sallied forth withthe full intention of making my immediate escape. This was not so easy.I encountered no one in the corridors, but as I opened the door of theSalle des Trophees, a din of many voices burst upon my ears. A number ofpersons occupied the hall, apparently engaged in the discussion of anextempore breakfast. To my infinite disgust, I recognised my quondamacquaintances of the cellar."Aha! thou art still here then, citizen?" cried Monsieur Destripes, whowas inflicting huge gashes upon a ham, filched, no doubt, from the royalbuttery. "By my faith, we thought thou hadst given us the slip. Nevermind--we are not likely to part soon; so sit thee down and partake ofour republican cheer.""I am afraid," said I, "that business requires my presence elsewhere.""Let it keep till it cool then," replied the other. "Suffice it to say,that no man quits this hall till the whole of us march out _en masse_.Say I right, brother Pomme-de-terre?""Just so," replied the chiffonier, tossing off his draught from anornament of Venetian glass. "We have built up a second barricade, andhave sworn never to surrender.""How is this, gentlemen?" said I."You must know, sir," replied a meagre-looking personage, whom Iafterwards ascertained to be a barber, "that the liberty of the peopleis not yet secure. Last night, when we were in the cellar, a large bodyof the National Guard came, by orders of the Provisional Government, andejected the whole of our compatriots from the upper stories of theTuileries. This we hold to be a clear infraction of the charter, for allpublic buildings are declared to be the property of the people.Fortunately we escaped their notice, but being determined to reassertthe rights of France, we have barricaded the staircase which leads tothis hall, and are resolved to maintain our post.""Bravely spoken, old Saigne-du-nez!" cried the butcher; "and a jolliercompany you won't find anywhere. Here are ladies for society, wine forthe drinking, provisions to last us a week; and what would you wish formore? _Cent mille haches!_ I doubt if Louis Philippe is enjoying himselfhalf so much.""But really gentlemen--""_Sacre_, no mutiny!" cried the butcher; "don't we know that thesovereign will of the people must be respected? There is thy friendthere, as happy as may be; go round and profit by his example."Sure enough I discovered poor Bagsby extended in a corner of the hall.The orgies of last evening were sufficient to account for his haggardcountenance and blood-shot eyes, but hardly for the multitudinous oathswhich he ejaculated from time to time. Beside him sat a bloatedpoissarde, who was evidently enamoured of his person, and tended himwith all that devotion which is the characteristic of the gentler sex.As it was beyond the power of either to hold any intelligibleconversation, the lady contrived to supply its place by a system ofendearing pantomime. Sometimes she patted Bagsby on the cheek, thenchirupped as a girl might do when coaxing a bird to open its mouth, andoccasionally endeavoured to insinuate morsels of garlic and meat betweenhis lips."Oh, Mr Dunshunner! save me from this hag!" muttered Bagsby. "I havesuch a splitting headache, and she will insist on poisoning me with herconfounded trash! Faugh, how she smells of eels! O dear! oh dear! isthere no way of getting out? The barricades and the fighting are nothingcompared to this!""I am afraid, Mr Bagsby," said I, "there is no remedy but patience. Ourfriends here seem quite determined to hold out, and I am afraid thatthey would use little ceremony, did we make any show of resistance.""I know that well enough!" said Bagsby; "they wanted to hang me lastnight, because I made a run to the door: only, the women would not letthem. What do you want, you old harridan? I wish you would take yourfingers from my neck!""_Ce cher bourgeois!_" murmured the poissarde: "_c'est un mechant drole,mais assez joli!_""Upon my word, Mr Bagsby, I think you have reason to congratulateyourself on your conquest. At all events, don't make enemies of thewomen; for, heaven knows, we are in a very ticklish situation, and Idon't like the looks of several of those fellows.""If ever I get home again," said Bagsby, "I'll renounce my errors, turnTory, go regularly to church, and pray for the Queen. I've had enough ofliberty to last me the rest of my natural lifetime. But, I say, my dearfriend, couldn't you just rid me of this woman for half an hour or so?You will find her a nice chatty sort of person; only, I don't quitecomprehend what she says.""Utterly impossible, Mr Bagsby! See, they are about something now. Ourfriend the barber is rising to speak.""Citizens!" said Saigne-du-nez, speaking as from a tribune, over theback of an arm-chair--"Citizens! we are placed by the despotism of ourrulers in an embarrassing position. We, the people, who have won thepalace and driven forth the despot and his race, are now ordered toevacuate the field of our glory, by men who have usurped the charter,and who pretend to interpret the law. I declare the sublime truth, that,with the revolution, all laws, human and divine, have perished! (Immenseapplause.)"Citizens! isolated as we are by this base decree from the great body ofthe people, it becomes us to constitute a separate government forourselves. Order must be maintained, but such order as shall striketerror into the breasts of our enemies. France has been assailed throughus, and we must vindicate her freedom. Amongst us are many patriots,able and willing to sustain the toils of government; and I now proposethat we proceed to elect a provisional ministry."The motion was carried by acclamation, and the orator proceeded:"Citizens! amongst our numbers there is one man who has filled the mostlofty situations. I allude to Citizen Jupiter Potard. Actor in a hundredrevolutions, he has ever maintained the sublime demeanour of a patriotof the Reign of Terror. Three generations have regarded him as a model,and I now call upon him to assume the place and dignity of ourPresident."Jupiter Potard, a very fine-looking old man, with a beard about a yardlong,--who was really a model, inasmuch as he had sat in that capacityfor the last thirty years to the artists of Paris,--was then conducted,amidst general applause, to a chair at the head of the table. Jupiter, Iam compelled to add, seemed rather inebriated; but as he did not attemptto make any speeches, that circumstance did not operate as adisqualification.The remainder of the administration was speedily formed. Destripesbecame Minister of the Interior: Pomme-de-terre received thePortfolio of Justice. A gentleman, who rejoiced in the sobriquet ofGratte-les-rues, was made Minister of War. Saigne-du-nez appointedhimself to the Financial Department, and I was unanimously voted theMinister of Foreign Affairs. These were the principal offices of theRepublic, and to us the functions of government were confided. Bagsby,at the request of the poissardes, received the honorary title ofMinister of Marine.A separate table was ordered for our accommodation; and our firstdecree, countersigned by the Minister of the Interior, was an orderfor a fresh subsidy from the wine-cellar.Here a sentry, who had been stationed at a window, announced theapproach of a detachment of the National Guard."Citizen Minister of War!" said Saigne-du-nez, who, without any scruple,had usurped the functions of poor old Jupiter Potard, "this is yourbusiness. It is my opinion that the provisional government cannotreceive a deputation of this kind. Let them announce their intentionsat the barricade without."Gratte-les-rues, a huge ruffian with a squint, straightway shoulderedhis musket and left the room. In a few minutes he returned with a paper,which he cast upon the table."A decree from the Hotel de Ville," he said."Is it your pleasure, citizen colleagues, that this document should nowbe read?" asked Saigne-du-nez.All assented, and, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, the followingdocument was placed in my hands. It was listened to with profoundattention.     "Unity is the soul of the French nation; it forms its grandeur, its     power, and its glory; through unity we have triumphed, and the     rights of the people have been vindicated.     "Impressed with these high and exalted sentiments, and overflowing     with that fraternity which is the life-blood of our social system,     the Provisional Government decrees:--     "I. That the Tuileries, now denominated the Hopital des Invalides     Civiles, shall be immediately evacuated by the citizens who have so     bravely wrested it from the tyrant.     "II. That each patriot, on leaving it, shall receive from the     public treasury the sum of five francs, or an equivalent in     coupons.     "III. The Minister of the Interior is charged with the execution of     this decree.      "_Liberte--Fraternite--Egalite_.         (Signed)     DUPONT (de l'Eure).           LEDRU-ROLLIN.     LAMARTINE.                    CREMIEUX.     GARNIER-PAGES.                LOUIS BLANC.     ARAGO.                        MARRAST.     MARIE.                        FLOCON.               ALBERT (ouvrier).""_Sang de Mirabeau!_" cried Destripes, when I had finished the perusalof this document, "do they take us for fools! Five francs indeed! Thisis the value which these aristocrats place upon the blood of the people!Citizen colleagues, I propose that the messenger be admitted, andimmediately flung out of the window!""And I second the motion," said Pomme-de-terre."Nay, citizens!" cried Saigne-du-nez,--"no violence. I agree that wecannot entertain the offer, but this is a case for negotiation. Let theMinister of Foreign Affairs draw up a protocol in reply."In consequence of this suggestion I set to work, and in a few minutesproduced the following manifesto, which may find a place in somesubsequent collection of treaties:     "France is free. The rights of every Frenchman, having been gained     by himself, are sacred and inviolable; the rights of property are     abrogated.     "Indivisibility is a fundamental principle of the nation. It     applies peculiarly to public works. That which the nation gave, the     nation now resumes.     "We protest against foreign aggression. Satisfied with our own     triumph, we shall remain tranquil. We do not ask possession of the     Hotel de Ville, but we are prepared to maintain our righteous     occupation of the Tuileries.     "Impressed with these high and exalted sentiments, the Provisional     Government of the Tuileries decrees--     "I. That it is inexpedient to lessen the glory of France, by     intrusting the charge of the Tuileries to any other hands save     those of the brave citizens who have so nobly captured it.     "II. That the Provisional Government does not recognise coupons as     a national medium of exchange.     "III. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is charged with the execution     of this decree.     "_Mort aux tyrans!_         (Signed)     POTARD.                       POMME-DE-TERRE.     DUNSHUNNER.                   GRATTE-LES-RUES.     SAIGNE-DU-NEZ.                DESTRIPES.               BAGSBY (tisserand)."This document was unanimously adopted as the true exponent of oursentiments; and I was highly complimented by my colleagues on mydiplomatic ability. I took occasion, however, to fold up the followingnote along with the despatch:     "If Citizen Albert has any regard for his English friends, he     will immediately communicate their situation to the citizen     Monte-Christo. Here, affairs look very ill. The public tranquillity     depends entirely upon the supply of liquor."This business being settled, we occupied ourselves with more industrialduties. The finance was easily disposed of. There were but four francs,six sous, leviable among the whole community; but Gratte-les-rues,with instinctive acuteness, had discovered the watch and chain of theunfortunate Minister of Marine, and these were instantly seized andconfiscated as public property.On investigation we found that the larder was but indifferentlysupplied. Due allowance being made for the inordinate appetite of thepoissardes, of whom there were no less than ten in our company, it wascalculated that our stock of food could not last for more than a coupleof days. On the other hand, there was a superabundance of wine.We then proceeded to adjust a scheme for the future regulation of labourthroughout France; but I do not think that I need trouble my readerswith the detail. It did not differ materially from that propounded by M.Louis Blanc, and the substance of it might shortly be stated as--threedays' wage for half-a-day's labour. It was also decreed, that allservants should receive, in addition to their wages, a proportion oftheir masters' profits.After some hours of legislation, not altogether harmonious--forDestripes, being baulked in a proposition to fire the palace, threatenedto string up old Jupiter Potard to the chandelier, and was onlyprevented from doing so by the blunderbuss of Saigne-du-nez--we grewweary of labour, and the orgies commenced anew. I have neither patiencenor stomach to enter into a description of the scene that was there andthen enacted. In charity to the human race, let me hope that such aspectacle may never again be witnessed in the heart of a Christian city.Poor Bagsby suffered fearfully. The affection of the poissarde hadgradually augmented to a species of insanity, and she never left him fora moment. The unhappy man was dragged out by her to every dance; shegloated on him like an ogress surveying a plump and pursy pilgrim; andat the close of each set she demanded the fraternal salute. He tried toescape from his persecutor by dodging round the furniture; but it was ofno use. She followed him as a ferret follows a rabbit through all theintricacies of his warren, and invariably succeeded in capturing herbooty in a corner.At length night came, and with it silence. One by one the revellers hadfallen asleep, some still clutching the bottle, which they had pliedwith unabated vigour so long as sensibility remained, and the broad calmmoon looked on reproachfully through the windows of that desecratedhall. There was peace in heaven, but on earth--oh, what madness andpollution!I was lying wrapped up in some old tapestry, meditating very seriouslyupon my present precarious situation, when I observed a figure movingamidst the mass of sleepers. The company around was of such a nature,that unpleasant suspicions naturally occurred to my mind, and Icontinued to watch the apparition until the moonlight shone upon it,when I recognised Bagsby. This poor fellow was a sad incubus upon mymotions; for although I had no earthly tie towards him, I could nothelp feeling that in some measure I had been instrumental in placing himin his present dilemma, and I had resolved not to escape without makinghim the partner of my flight. I was very curious to know the object ofhis present movements, for the stealthy manner in which he glidedthrough the hall betokened some unusual purpose. I was not long left indoubt. From behind a large screen he drew forth a coil of cord, formerlyattached to the curtain, but latterly indicated by Destripes as theimplement for Potard's apotheosis; and approaching a window, heproceeded to attach one end of it very deliberately to a staple. He thengave a cautious glance around, as if to be certain that no one waswatching him, and began to undo the fastenings of the window. A newgleam of hope dawned upon me. I was about to rise and move to hisassistance, when another figure glided rapidly through the moonshine. Inan instant Bagsby was clutched by the throat, and a low voice hissedout--"_Ah traitre! monstre! polisson! tu veux donc fuir?_"It was the poissarde. Nothing on earth is so wakeful as a jealous woman.She had suspected the designs of the wretched Minister of Marine, andcounterfeited sleep only to detect him in the act of escaping.Not a moment was to be lost. I knew that if this woman gave the alarm,Bagsby would inevitably be hanged with his own rope, and I stole towardsthe couple, in order to effect, if possible, a reconciliation."Ah, citizen, is it thou?" said the poissarde more loudly than was atall convenient. "Here is thy fellow trying to play me a pretty trick!Perfidious monster! was this what thou meant by all thy professions oflove?""For heaven's sake, take the woman off, or she will strangle me!"muttered Bagsby."Pray, hush! my dear madam, hush!" said I, "or you may wake some of ourfriends.""What care I?" said the poissarde; "let them wake, and I will denouncethe villain who has dared to trifle with my affections!""Nay, but consider the consequences!" said I. "Do, pray, be silent forone moment. Bagsby, this is a bad business!""You need not tell me that," groaned Bagsby."Your life depends upon this woman, and you must appease her somehow.""I'll agree to anything," said the terrified Minister of Marine."Yes! I will be avenged!" cried the poissarde; "I will have his heart'sblood, since he has dared to deceive me. How! is this the way they treata daughter of the people?""Citoyenne!" I said, "you are wrong--utterly wrong. Believe me, he lovesyou passionately. What proof do you desire?""Let him marry me to-morrow," said the poissarde, "in this very room, orI shall immediately raise the alarm."I tried to mitigate the sentence, but the poissarde was perfectlyobdurate."Bagsby, there is no help for it!" said I. "We are in the midst of arevolution, and must go along with it. She insists upon you marrying herto-morrow. The alternative is instant death.""I'll do it," said Bagsby, quietly; "anything is better than beingmurdered in cold blood."The countenance of the poissarde brightened."Aha!" said she, taking the submissive Bagsby by the ear, "so thou artto be my republican husband after all, _coquin_? Come along. I shalltake care that thou dost not escape again to-night, and to-morrow Ishall keep thee for ever!"So saying, she conducted her captive to the other end of the hall.CHAPTER VI.A REPUBLICAN WEDDING."This is great news!" said Destripes, as we mustered round therevolutionary breakfast table. "Hast heard, citizen? Our colleague theMinister of Marine is about to contract an alliance with a daughter ofthe people. _Corbleu!_ There is no such sport as a regular republicanmarriage!""In my early days," said Jupiter Potard, "we had them very frequently.The way was, to tie two young aristocrats together, and throw them intothe Seine. How poor dear Carrier used to laugh at the fun! Oh, myfriends! we shall never see such merry times again.""Come, don't be down-hearted, old fellow!" cried Destripes. "We nevercan tell what is before us. I don't despair of seeing something yetwhich might make the ghost of Collot d'Herbois rub its hands withecstasy. But to our present work. Let us get over the business of theday, and then celebrate the wedding with a roaring festival.""But where are we to find a priest?" asked Saigne-du-nez. "I questionwhether any of our fraternity has ever taken orders.""Priest!" cried Destripes ferociously. "Is this an age of superstition?I tell thee, Saigne-du-nez, that if any such fellow were here, he shouldpresently be dangling from the ceiling! What better priest would'stthou have than our venerable friend Potard?""Ay, ay!" said Pomme-de-terre, "Potard will do the work famously. I'llwarrant me, with that long beard of his, he has sate for a high-priestere now. But look at Citoyenne Corbeille, how fond she seems of herbargain. _Ventrebleu!_ our colleague is sure to be a happy man!"Whatever happiness might be in store for Bagsby hereafter, there was noappearance of it just then. He sate beside his bride like a criminal onthe morning of his execution; and such efforts as he did make to respondto her attentions were rueful and ludicrous in the extreme.Breakfast over, we proceeded to council; but as we had no deputations toreceive, and no fresh arrangements to make, our sitting was ratherbrief. Bagsby, in order, as I supposed, to gain time, entreated me tobroach the topics of free-trade and unrestricted international exchange;but recent events had driven the doctrines of Manchester from my head,and somewhat shaken my belief in the infallibility of the prophets ofthe League. Besides, I doubted very much whether our ProvisionalMinistry cared one farthing for duties upon calico and linen, neither ofthese being articles in which they were wont exorbitantly to indulge;and I perfectly understood the danger of appearing over tedious uponany subject in a society so strangely constituted. I therefore turned adeaf ear to the prayers of Bagsby, and refused to enlighten the councilat the risk of the integrity of my neck. No reply whatever had been madeby the authorities without, to our communication of the previous day.One o'clock was the hour appointed by the Provisional Government for thenuptial ceremony, which was to be performed with great solemnity. Abouttwelve the bride, accompanied by three other poissardes, retired, inorder to select from the stores of the palace a costume befitting theoccasion. In the mean time, I had great difficulty in keeping up thecourage of Bagsby,--indeed, he was only manageable through the medium ofdoses of brandy. At times he would burst out into a paroxysm of passion,and execrate collectively and individually the whole body of theManchester League, who had sent him upon this unfortunate mission toParis. This profanity over, he would burst into tears, bewail hiswretched lot, and apostrophise a certain buxom widow, who seemed todwell somewhere in the neighbourhood of Macclesfield. As for the French,the outpourings from the vial of his wrath upon that devoted nation weremost awful and unchristian. The plagues of Egypt were a joke to thetorments which he invoked upon their heads; and I felt intenselythankful that not one of our companions understood a syllable ofEnglish, else the grave would inevitably have been the bridal couch ofthe Bagsby.It now became my duty to see the bridegroom properly attired; for whichpurpose, with permission of our colleagues, I conducted Bagsby to aneighbouring room, where a full suit of uniform, perhaps the property ofLouis Philippe, had been laid out."Come now, Mr Bagsby," said I, observing that he was about to renew hislamentations, "we have had quite enough of this. You have brought itupon yourself. Had you warned me of your design last night, it is quitepossible that both of us might have escaped; but you chose to essay theadventure single-handed, and, having failed, you must stand by theconsequences. After all, what is it? Merely marriage, a thing whichalmost every man must undergo at least once in his lifetime.""Oh! but such a woman--such a she-devil rather!" groaned Bagsby. "Ishouldn't be the least surprised if she bites as bad as a crocodile. Howcan I ever take such a monster home, and introduce her to my friends?""I see no occasion for that, my good fellow. Why not stay here andbecome a naturalised Frenchman?""Here? I'd as soon think of staying in a lunatic asylum! Indeed I may bein one soon enough, for flesh and blood can't stand this kind of torturelong. But I say," continued he, a ray of hope flashing across hiscountenance, "they surely can't make it a real marriage after all.Hanged if any one of these blackguards is a clergyman; and even if hewas, they haven't got a special license.""Don't deceive yourself, Mr Bagsby," said I; "marriage in France is amere social contract, and can be established by witnesses, of whom therewill be but too many present.""Then I say they are an infernal set of incarnate pestiferous heathens!What! marry a man whether he will or not, and out of church! It's enoughto draw down a judgment upon the land.""You forget, Mr Bagsby. You need not marry unless you choose; it is amere question of selection between a wedding and an execution,--betweenthe lady and a certain rope, which, I can assure you, MonsieurDestripes, o