enough lookout to ask me to marry him.That wasn't so pleasant to me, when I come to think of it; I thoughtI'd ought to have been counselled with. But it was just like Major;everybody come to her for a word of help or comfort, whether they tookher idee or not,--she had such feelin' for other folks's trouble.I got over that little nub after a while; and then I was so pleased,everything went smooth ag'in. I was goin' to be married in the spring;and we were goin' straight out to Indiana, onto some wild land SquirePotter owned out there, to clear it and settle it, and what Russellcleared he was to have. So mother took some money out of the bank tofit me out, and Major and I went down to Hartford to buy my things.I said before, we wasn't either of us any great things to look at; butit come about that one day I heerd somebody tell how we did look, andI thought considerable about it then and afterwards. We was buyin'some cotton to a store in the city, and I was lookin' about at all thepretty things, and wonderin' why I was picked out to be poor when somany folks was rich and had all they wanted, when presently I heerd alady in a silk gown say to another one, so low she thought I didn'thear her,--"There are two nice-looking girls, Mrs. Carr.""Hem,--yes," said the other one; "they look healthy and strong: theoldest one has a lovely expression, both steady and sweet; the otherdon't look happy."I declare, that was a fact. I was sorry, too, for I'd got everythingin creation to make anybody happy, and now I was frettin' to be rich.I thought I'd try to be like Major; but I expect it was mostly becauseof the looks of it, for I forgot to try before long.Well, in the spring we was married; and when I come to go away, Majorput a little red Bible into my trunk for a weddin' present; but I wascryin' too hard to thank her. She swallowed down whatever choked her,and begged of me not to cry so, lest Russell should take it hard thatI mourned to go with him. But just then I was thinkin' more of Majorand mother than I was of Russell; they'd kept me bright and cheeryalways, and kept up my heart with their own good ways when I hadn't nostrength to do it for myself; and now I was goin' off alone withRussell, and he wasn't very cheerful-dispositioned, and somehow mycourage give way all to once.But I had to go; railroads don't wait for nobody; and what with thelong journey, and the new ways and things and people, I hadn't no timeto get real down once before we got to Indiana. After we left the boatthere was a spell of railroad, and then a long stage-ride toCumberton; and then we had to hire a big wagon and team, so's to getus out to our claim, thirty miles west'ard of Cumberton. I hadn't notime to feel real lonesome now, for all our things hed got to beonpacked, and packed over ag'in in the wagon; some on 'em had to bestored up, so's to come another time. We was two days gettin' to theclaim, the roads was so bad,--mostly what they call corduroy, but agood stretch clear mud-holes. By the time we got to the end on't, Iwas tired out, just fit to cry; and such a house as was waitin' forus!--a real log shanty! I see Russell looked real beat when he see myface; and I tried to brighten up; but I wished to my heart I was backwith mother forty times that night, if I did once. Then come the worstof all, clutterin' everything right into that shanty; for ourframe-house wouldn't be done for two months, and there wa'n't scarceroom for what we'd brought, so't we couldn't think of sendin' for whatwas stored to Cumberton. I didn't sleep none for two nights, becauseof the whip-poor-wills that set on a tree close by, and called tillmornin' light; but after that I was too tired to lie awake.Well, it was real lonesome, but it was all new at first, and Russellwas to work near by, so't I could see him, and oftentimes hear himwhistle; and I had the garden to make, round to the new house, for Iknew more about the plantin' of it than he did, 'specially myposy-bed, and I had a good time gettin' new flowers out of the woods.And the woods was real splendid,--great tall tulip-trees, as high as asteeple and round as a quill, without any sort o' branches ever so furup, and the whole top full of the yeller tulips and the queersnipped-lookin' shiny leaves, till they looked like great bow-pots onsticks; then there's lots of other great trees, only they're allmostly spindled up in them woods. But the flowers that grow round onthe ma'sh edges and in the clearin's do beat all.So time passed along pretty glib till the frame-house was done, andthen we had to move in, and to get the things from Cumberton, andbegin to feel as though we were settled for good and all; and afterthe newness had gone off, and the clearin' got so fur that I couldn'tsee Russell no more, and nobody to look at, if I was never solonesome, then come a pretty hard spell. Everything about the housewas real handy, so't I'd get my work cleared away, and set down to sewearly; and them long summer-days that was still and hot, I'd set, andset, never hearin' nothin' but the clock go "tick, tick, tick," (never"tack," for a change,) and every now'n'then a great crash and roar inthe woods where he was choppin', that I knew was a tree; and I workedmyself up dreadfully when there was a longer spell 'n common comebetwixt the crashes, lest that Russell might 'a' been ketched underthe one that fell. And settin' so, and worryin' a good deal, day inand day out, kinder broodin' over my troubles, and never thinkin'about anybody but myself, I got to be of the idee that I was theworst-off creature goin'. If I'd have stopped to think about Russell,may-be I should have had some sort of pity for him, for he was jest aslonesome as I, and I wasn't no kind of comfort to come home to,--'mostalways cryin', or jest a-goin' to.So the summer went along till 'twas nigh on to winter, and I wa'n't inno better sperrits. And now I wa'n't real well, and I pined formother, and I pined for Major, and I'd have given all the honey andbuckwheat in Indiana for a loaf of mother's dry rye-bread and a drinkof spring-water. And finally I got so miserable, I wished I wa'n'tnever married,--and I'd have wished I was dead, if 'twa'n't for bein'doubtful where I'd go to, if I was. And worst of all, one day I got soworked up I told Russell all that. I declare, he turned as white as aturnip. I see I'd hurt him, and I'd have got over it in a minute andtold him so,--only he up with his axe and walked out of the door, andnever come home till night, and then I was too stubborn to speak tohim.Well, things got worse, 'n' one day I was sewin' some things andcryin' over 'em, when I heard a team come along by, and, before Icould get to the door, Russell come in, all red for joy, and says,--"Who do you want to see most, Anny?"Somehow the question kind of upset me;--I got choked, and then I bu'stout a-cryin'."Oh, mother and Major!" says I; and I hadn't more'n spoke the wordbefore mother had both her good strong arms round me, and Major's realcheery face was a-lookin' up at me from the little pine cricket, whereshe'd sot down as nateral as life. Well, I _was_ glad, and so wasRussell, and the house seemed as shiny as a hang-bird's-nest, andby-and-by the baby came;--but I had mother.'Twas 'long about in March when I was sick, and by the end of April Iwas well, and so's to be stirrin' round again. And mother and Majorbegun to talk about goin' home; and I declare, my heart was up in mymouth every time they spoke on't, and I begun to be miserable ag'in.One day I was settin' beside of mother; Major was out in the garden,fixin' up things, and settin' out a lot of blows she'd got in thewoods, and singin' away, and says I to mother,--"What be I going to do, mother, without you and Major? I 'most died ofclear lonesomeness before you come!"Mother laid down her knittin', and looked straight at me."I wish you'd got a little of Major's good cheer, Anny," says she."You haven't any call to be lonely here; it's a real good country, andyou've got a nice house, and the best of husbands, and a dear littlebaby, and you'd oughter try to give up frettin'. I wish you was pious,Anny; you wouldn't fault the Lord's goodness the way you do.""Well, Major don't have nothin' to trouble her, mother," says I."She's all safe and pleasant to home; she a'n't homesick."Mother spoke up pretty resolute:--"There a'n't nobody in the world, Anny, but what has troubles. Ididn't calculate to tell you about Major's; but sence you lay herlively ways to luck, may-be you'd better know 'em. She's been engagedthis six months to Reuben Potter, and he's goin' off in a slowconsumption; he won't never live to marry her, and she knows it.""And she come away to see me, mother?""Yes, she did. I can't say I thought she need to, but Russell wroteyou was pinin' for both of us, and I didn't think you could get alongwithout me, but I told her to stay with Reuben, and I'd come on alone.And says she, 'No, mother, you a'n't young and spry enough to go aloneso fur, and the Lord made you my mother and Anny my sister before Ipicked out Reuben for myself. I can't never have any kin but you, andI might have had somebody beside Reuben, though it don't seem likelynow; but he's got four sisters to take care of him, and he thinks andI think it's what I ought to do; so I'm goin' with you.' So she come,Anny; and you see how lively she keeps, just because she don't want todishearten you none. I don't know as you can blame her for kinderhankerin' to get home."I hadn't nothin' to say; I was beat. So mother she went on:--"Fact is, Anny, Major's always a-thinkin' about other folks; it comeskind of nateral to her, and then bein' pious helps it. I guess, dear,when you get to thinkin' more about Russell an' the baby, you'llforget some of your troubles. I hope the Lord won't have to give youno harder lesson than lovin', to teach you Major's ways."So, after that, I couldn't say no more to mother about stayin'; butwhen they went away, I like to have cried myself sick,--only baby hadto be looked after, and I couldn't dodge her.Bym-by we had letters from home; they got there all safe, and Reubenwa'n't no worse, Major said;--ef't had been me wrote the letter, Ishould have said he wa'n't no better!--And I fell back into the oldlonesome days, for baby slept mostly; and the summer come on extremehot; and in July, Russell, bein' forced to go to Cumberton on someland business, left me to home with baby and the hired man,calculatin' to be gone three days and two nights.The first day he was away was dreadful sultry; the sun went down awayover the woods in a kind of a red-hot fog, and it seemed as though thestars were dull and coppery at night; even the whip-poor-wills was toohot to sing; nothin' but a doleful screech-owl quavered away, a half amile off, a good hour, steady. When it got to be mornin', it didn'tseem no cooler; there wa'n't a breath of wind, and the locusts in thewoods chittered as though they was fryin'. Our hired man was an oldScotchman, by name Simon Grant; and when he'd got his breakfast, hesaid he'd go down the clearin' and bring up a load of brush for me toburn. So he drove off with the team, and, havin' cleared up thedishes, I put baby to sleep, and took my pail to the barn to milk thecow,--for we kept her in a kind of a home-lot like, a part that hadbeen cleared afore we come, lest she should stray away in the woods,if we turned her loose; she was put in the barn, too, nights, for fearsome stray wild-cat or bear might come along and do her a harm. So Ilet her into the yard, and was jest a-goin' to milk her when she begunto snort and shake, and finally giv' the pail a kick, and set off,full swing, for the fence to the lot. I looked round to see what wasa-comin', and there, about a quarter of a mile off, I see the mostcurus thing I ever see before or since,--a cloud as black as ink inthe sky, and hangin' down from it a long spout like, something like anelephant's trunk, and the whole world under it looked to be all beatto dust. Before I could get my eyes off on't, or stir to run, I see itwas comin' as fast as a locomotive; I heerd a great roar andrush,--first a hot wind, and then a cold one, and then a crash,--an''twas all as dark as death all round, and the roar appeared to bea-passin' off.I didn't know for quite a spell where I was. I was flat on my face,and when I come to a little, I felt the grass against my cheek, and Ismelt the earth; but I couldn't move, no way; I couldn't turn over,nor raise my head more'n two inches, nor draw myself up one. I wascomfortable so long as I laid still; but if I went to move, Icouldn't. It wasn't no use to wriggle; and when I'd settled that, Ijest went to work to figger out where I was and how I got there, andthe best I could make out was that the barn-roof had blowed off andlighted right over me, jest so as not to hurt me, but so't I could'ntmove.Well, there I lay. I knew baby was asleep in the trundle-bed, andthere wa'n't no fire in the house; but how did I know the house wa'n'tblowed down? I thought that as quick as a flash of lightnin'; itkinder struck me; I couldn't even see, so as to be certain! I wasn'tnaterally fond of children, but somehow one's own is different, andbaby was just gettin' big enough to be pretty; and there I lay,feelin' about as bad as I could, but hangin' on to one hope,--that oldSimon, seein' the tornado, would come pretty soon to see where we was.I lay still quite a spell, listenin'. Presently I heerd a low,whimperin', pantin' noise, comin' nearer and nearer, and I knew it wasold Lu, a yeller hound of Simon's, that he'd set great store by,because he brought him from the Old Country. I heerd the dog comepretty near to where I was, and then stop, and give a long howl. Itried to call him, but I was all choked up with dust, and for a whileI couldn't make no sound. Finally I called, "Lu! Lu! here, Sir!" andif ever you heerd a dumb creature laugh, he barked a real laugh, andcome springin' along over towards me. I called ag'in, and he begun toscratch and tear and pull,--at boards, I guessed, for it sounded likethat; but it wa'n't no use, he couldn't get at me, and he give up atlength and set down right over my head and give another howl, so longand so dismal I thought I'd as lieves hear the bell a-tollin' my age.Pretty soon, I heerd another sound,--the baby cryin'; and with that Lujumped off whatever 'twas that buried me up, and run. "At any rate,"thinks I, "baby's alive." And then I bethought myself if 'twa'n't apainter, after all; they scream jest like a baby, and there's a lot ofthem, or there was then, right round in our woods; and Lu was dreadfulfond to hunt 'em; and he never took no notice of baby;--and I couldn'tstir to see!Oh, dear! the sweat stood all over me! And there I lay, and Simondidn't come, nor I didn't hear a mouse stir; the air was as still asdeath, and I got nigh distracted. Seemed as if all my life riz rightup there in the dark and looked at me. Here I was, all helpless,may-be never to get out alive; for Simon didn't come, and Russell wasgone away. I'd had a good home, and a kind husband, and all I couldask; but I hadn't had a contented mind; I'd quarrelled withProvidence, 'cause I hadn't got everything,--and now I hadn't gotnothing. I see just as clear as daylight how I'd nussed up everylittle trouble till it growed to a big one,--how I'd sp'ilt Russell'slife, and made him wretched,--how I'd been cross to him a great manytimes when I had ought to have been a comfort; and now it was likeenough I shouldn't never see him again,--nor baby, nor mother, norMajor. And how could I look the Lord in the face, if I did die? Thattook all my strength out. I lay shakin' and chokin' with the idee, Idon't know how long; it kind of got hold of me and ground me down; itwas worse than all. I wished to gracious I didn't believe in hell; butthen it come to mind, What should I do in heaven, ef I was there? Ididn't love nothin' that folks in heaven love, except the baby; Ihadn't been suited with the Lord's will on earth, and 'twa'n't likelyI was goin' to like it any better in heaven; and I should be ashamedto show my face where I didn't belong, neither by right nor by want. SoI lay. Presently I heerd in my mind this verse, that I'd learned yearsback in Sabbath School,--  "Wherefore He is able also to save them to  the uttermost"--there it stopped, but it was a plenty for me. I see at once therewasn't no help anywhere else, and for once in my life I did pray, realearnest, and--queer enough--not to get out, but to be made good. Ikind of forgot where I was, I see so complete what I was; but after awhile I did pray to live in the flesh; I wanted to make some amends toRussell for pesterin' on him so.It seemed to me as though I'd laid there two days. A rain finally comeon, with a good even-down pour, that washed in a little, and cooled myhot head; and after it passed by I heerd one whip-poor-will singin',so't I knew it was night. And pretty soon I heerd the tramp of ahorse's feet;--it come up; it stopped; I heerd Russell say out loud,"O Lord!" and give a groan, and then I called to him. I declare, hejumped!So I got him to go look for baby first, because I could wait; and lo!she was all safe in the trundle-bed, with Lu beside of her, both on'em stretched out together, one of her little hands on his nose; andwhen Russell looked in to the door she stirred a bit, and Lu lickedher hand to keep her quiet. It tells in the Bible about children'sangels always seein' the face of God, so's to know quick what to dofor 'em, I suppose; and I'm sure her'n got to her afore the tornado;for though the house-roof had blowed off, and the chimbley tumbleddown, there wa'n't a splinter nor a brick on her bed, only close bythe head on't a great hunk of stone had fell down, and steadied up theclothes-press from tumblin' right on top of her.So then Russell rode over, six miles, to a neighbor's, and got twomen, and betwixt 'em all they pried up the beams of the barn, that hadblowed on to the roof and pinned it down over me, and then lifted upthe boards and got me out; and I wa'n't hurt, except a few bruises:but after that day I begun to get gray hairs.Well, Russell was pretty thankful, I b'lieve,--more so'n he need to befor such a wife. We fixed up some kind of a shelter, but Lu howled soall night we couldn't sleep. It seems Russell had seen the tornado toCumberton, and, judgin' from its course 'twould come past theclearin', he didn't wait a minute, but saddled up and come off; but ithad crossed the road once or twice, so it was nigh about eleveno'clock afore he got home; but it was broad moonlight. So I hadn'tbeen under the roof only about fifteen hours; but it seemed more.In the mornin' Russell set out to find Simon, and I was so trembly Icouldn't bear to stay alone, and I went with him, he carryin' baby,and Lu goin' before, as tickled as he could be. We went a long spellthrough the woods, keepin' on the edge of the tornado's road; for'thad made a clean track about a quarter of a mile wide, and felled thetrees flat,--great tulips cut off as sharp as pipe-stems, oaks twistedlike dandelion-stems, and hickories curled right up in a heap.Presently Lu give a bark, and then such a howl! and there was Simon,dead enough; a big oak had blowed down, with the trunk right acrosthis legs above the knees, and smashed them almost off. 'Twas plain ithadn't killed him to once, for the ground all about his head was toreup as though he'd fought with it, and Russell said his teeth and handswas full of grass and grit where he'd bit and tore, a-dyin' so hard. Ideclare, I shan't never forget that sight! Seems as if my body wasfull of little ice-spickles every time I think on't.Well, Russell couldn't do nothin'; we had no chance to lift the tree,so we went back to the house, and he rode away after neighbors; andwhile he was gone, I had a long spell of thinkin'. Mother said shehoped I wouldn't have no hard lesson to teach me Major's ways; but Ihad got it, and I know I needed it, 'cause it did come so hard. Ib'lieve I was a better woman after that. I got to think more of otherfolks's comfort than I did afore, and whenever I got goin' to bedismal ag'in I used to try 'n' find somebody to help; it was a surecure.When the neighbors come, Russell and they blasted and chopped the treeoff of Simon, and buried him under a big pine that we calculated notto fell. Lu pined, and howled, and moaned for his master, till I gothim to look after baby now and then, when I was hangin' out clothes ormakin' garden, and he got to like her in the end on't near as well asSimon.After a while there come more settlers out our way, and we got achurch to go to; and the minister, Mr. Jones, he come to know if I wasa member, and when I said I wa'n't, he put in to know if I wasn't apious woman."Well," says I, "I don't know, Sir." So I up and told him all aboutit, and how I had had a hard lesson; and he smiled once or twice, andsays he,--"Your husband thinks you are a Christian, Sister Potter, don't he?""Yes, I do," says Russell, a-comin' in behind me to the door,--forhe'd just stepped out to get the minister a basket of plums. "I ha'n'ta doubt on't, Mr. Jones."The minister looked at him, and I see he was kinder pleased."Well," says he, "I don't think there's much doubt of a woman's bein'pious when she's pious to home; and I don't want no better testimony'nyours, Mr. Potter. I shall admit you to full fellowship, sister, whenwe have a church-meetin' next; for it's my belief you experiencedreligion under that blowed-down barn."And I guess I did.LE MARAIS DU CYGNE.[1][1: The massacre of unarmed and unoffending men in Southern Kansastook place near the Marais du Cygne of the French _voyageurs_.]  A blush as of roses    Where rose never grew!  Great drops on the bunch-grass,    But not of the dew!  A taint in the sweet air    For wild bees to shun!  A stain that shall never    Bleach out in the sun!  Back, steed of the prairies!    Sweet song-bird, fly back!  Wheel hither, bald vulture!    Gray wolf, call thy pack!  The foul human vultures    Have feasted and fled;  The wolves of the Border    Have crept from the dead.  From the hearths of their cabins,    The fields of their corn,  Unwarned and unweaponed,    The victims were torn,--  By the whirlwind of murder    Swooped up and swept on  To the low, reedy fen-lands,    The Marsh of the Swan.  With a vain plea for mercy    No stout knee was crooked;  In the mouths of the rifles    Right manly they looked.  How paled the May sunshine,    Green Marais du Cygne,  When the death-smoke blew over    Thy lonely ravine!  In the homes of their rearing,    Yet warm with their lives,  Ye wait the dead only,    Poor children and wives!  Put out the red forge-fire,    The smith shall not come;  Unyoke the brown oxen,    The ploughman lies dumb.  Wind slow from the Swan's Marsh,    O dreary death-train,  With pressed lips as bloodless    As lips of the slain!  Kiss down the young eyelids,    Smooth down the gray hairs;  Let tears quench the curses    That burn through your prayers.  Strong man of the prairies,    Mourn bitter and wild!  Wail, desolate woman!    Weep, fatherless child!  But the grain of God springs up    From ashes beneath,  And the crown of His harvest    Is life out of death.  Not in vain on the dial    The shade moves along  To point the great contrasts    Of right and of wrong:  Free homes and free altars    And fields of ripe food;  The reeds of the Swan's Marsh,    Whose bloom is of blood.  On the lintels of Kansas    That blood shall not dry;  Henceforth the Bad Angel    Shall harmless go by:  Henceforth to the sunset,    Unchecked on her way,  Shall Liberty follow    The march of the day.YOUTH.The ancient statue of Minerva, in the Villa Albani, was characterizedas the Goddess of Wisdom by an aged countenance. Phidias reformed thisidea, and gave to her beauty and youth. Previous artists had imitatedNature too carelessly,--not deeply perceiving that wisdom and virtue,striving in man to resist senescence and decay, must in a goddessaccomplish their purpose, and preserve her in perpetual bloom. Yeteven decay and disease are often ineffectual; the young soul gleamsthrough these impediments, and would be poorly expressed in figures ofage. Accepting, therefore, this ideal representation, age and wisdomcan never be companions; youth is wise, and age is imbecile.Our childhood grows in value as we grow in years. It is to that timethat every one refers the influence which reaches to his present andsomehow moulds it. It may have been an insignificant circumstance,--aword,--a book,--praise or reproof; but from it has flowed all that heis. We should seem ridiculous in men's eyes, were we known to givethat importance to certain trifles which in our private and inmostthought they really have. Each finds somewhat in his childhoodpeculiar and remarkable, on which he loves to dwell. It gives him asecret importance in his own eyes, and he bears it about with him as akind of inspiring genius. Intimations of his destiny, gathered fromearly memories, float dimly before him, and are ever beckoning him on.That which he really is no one knows save himself. His words andactions do but inadequately reveal the being he is. We are all greaterthan we seem to each other. The heart's deepest secrets will not betold. The secret of the interest and delight we take in romances andpoetry is that they realize the expectations and hopes of youth. It isthe world we had painted and expected. He is unhappy who has neverknown the eagerness of childish anticipation.Full of anticipations, full of simple, sweet delights, are theseyears, the most valuable of lifetime. Then wisdom and religion areintuitive. But the child hastens to leave its beautiful time andstate, and watches its own growth with impatient eye. Soon he willseek to return. The expectation of the future has been disappointed.Manhood is not that free, powerful, and commanding state theimagination had delineated. And the world, too, disappoints his hope.He finds there things which none of his teachers ever hinted to him.He beholds a universal system of compromise and conformity, and in afatal day he learns to compromise and conform. At eighteen the youthrequires much stricter truth of men than at twenty-four.At twenty-four the prophecies of childhood and boyhood begin to befulfilled, the longings of the heart to be satisfied. He finds andtastes that life which once seemed to him so full of satisfaction andadvantage. The inclination to speak in the first person passes away,and his composition is less autobiographical. The claims of societyand friends begin to be respected. Solitude and musing are less sweet.The morbid effusions of earlier years, once so precious, no longerplease. Now he regards most his unwritten thought. He uses feweradjectives and alliterations, more verbs and dogmatism. There was atime when his genius was not domesticated, and he did his worksomewhat awkwardly, yet with a fervor prophetic of settled wisdom andeloquence. The youth is almost too much in earnest. He aims at nothingless than all knowledge, all wisdom, all power. Perchance the end ofall this is that he may discover his own proper work and tendency, andlearn to know himself from the revelations of his own nature inuniversal nature.For it is by this sign we choose companions and books. Not that theyare the best persons or the best thoughts; but some subtile affinityattracts and invites as to another self. In the choosing of companionsthere seems to be no choice at all. "We meet, we know not how or when;and though we should remember the history, yet friendship has ananterior history we know not of. We all have friends, but the one wantof the soul is a friend,--that other self, that one without whom manis incomplete and but the opaque face of a planet. For such wepatiently wait and hope, knowing that when we become worthy of him,continents, nor caste, nor opinion can separate us."A like experience is known to the young man in his reading. 'Tis invain to advise as to reading; a higher power controls the matter. Ofcourse there are some books all must read, as every one learns thealphabet and spelling-book; but his use and combination of them heshall share with no one. Some spiritual power is ever drawing ustowards what we love. Thus in books one constantly meets his own idea,his own feelings, even his most private ones, which he thought couldnot be known or appreciated beyond his own bosom. Therefore he quicklyfalls in love with those books that discover him to himself, and thatare the keepers of his secrets. Here is a part of himself written outin immortal letters. Here is that thought long dimly haunting themind, but which never before found adequate expression. Here is amemorable passage transcribed out of his experience.The fascination of books consists in their revelations of thehalf-conscious images of the reader's mind. There is a wonderfullikeness and coincidence in the thoughts of men. But not alone inbooks does one meet his own image at every turn. He beholds himselfstrewn in a thousand fragments throughout the world; and all hisculture is nothing but assimilation of himself to them, until he cansay with wise Ulysses, "I am a part of all that I have met."Thus Nature compels the youth to seek every means of stimulatinghimself to activity. He has learned that in periods of transition andchange fresh life flows in upon him, dilating the heart and disclosingnew realms of thought. He thanks the gods for every mood, Doric ordithyrambic, for each new relation, for each new friend, and even forhis sorrows and misfortunes. Out of these comes the complete wisdomwhich shall make old age but another more fair and perfect youth. Eventhe face and form shall be fortified against time and fate. In thephysiognomy of age much personal history is revealed. The dimples andfolds of infancy have become the furrows of thought and care. Yet,sometimes retaining their original beauty, they are an ornament, andin them we read the record of deep thought and experience.But the wrinkles of some old people are characterless; running in alldirections, appearing as though a finely-woven cloth had left itsimpress upon the face, revealing a life aimless and idle, ordistracted by a thousand cross-purposes and weaknesses.If now youth will permit us to look a little deeper into its heart, wewill attempt to celebrate that unpublished and vestal wisdom writtenthere. Age does us only indirect justice,--by the value it gives tomemory. It slights and forgets its own present. This day with itstrivialities dwindles and vanishes before the teeming hours wherein itlearned and felt and suffered;--so the circles, which are the tree'smemories of its own growth, are more distinct near the centre, whereits growth began, than in the outer and later development. Give agethe past, and let us be content with our legacy, which is the future.Still shall youth cast one retrospective glance at the experience ofits nonage, ere it assumes its prerogative, and quite forgets it.When the first surprise at the discovery of the faculties is over,begins the era of experience. The aspiration conducting to experimenthas revealed the power or the inability. Henceforth the youth willknow his relations to the world. But as yet men are ignorant how itstands between them. There has been only a closet performance, amorning rehearsal. He sees the tribute to genius, to industry, tobirth, to fortune. At first he yields reluctantly to novitiate andculture; he yearns for action. His masters tell him that the world iscoy, must be approached cautiously, and with something substantial inthe hand. The old bird will not be caught with chaff. He does not yetunderstand the process of accumulation and transmutation. The fate ofthe Danaides is his, and he draws long with a bottomless bucket. Butat last his incompetency can no further be concealed. Then he eithersubmits to the suggestions of despair and oblivion or bravely beginshis work. The exhilaration and satisfaction which he felt at his firstperformances, in this hour of renunciation, are changed to bitternessand disgust. He remembers the old oracle: "In the Bacchic processionmany carry the thyrsus, but few are inspired." The possibility ofultimate failure threatens him more and more while he reflects; as thechasm which you wish to leap grows impassable, if you measure anddeliberate. But the vivacity of youth preserves him from any permanentmisanthropy or doubt. Nature makes us blind where we should be injuredby seeing. We partake of the lead of Saturn, the activity of fire, theforgetfulness of water. His academic praises console him, maugre hisdepreciation of them. His little fame, the homage of his little world,have in them the same sweetness as the reverberation of ages. Heavenwould show him his capacity for those things to which he aspires bygiving him an early and representative realization of them. It is ahappy confidence. Reality is tyrannous. Let him construe everything inthe poet's mood. He shall dream, and the day will have moresignificance. Youth belongs to the Muse.How the old men envy us! They wisely preclude us from their world,since they know how it would bereave us of all that makes our state sofull of freedom and delight, and to them so suggestive of the past.  "I remember, when I think,  That my youth was half divine."Thus the great have ever chosen young men for companions. Was it notPlato who wished he were the heavens, that he might look down upon hisyoung companion with a thousand eyes? Thus they do homage to the giftof youth, and by its presence contrive to nestle into its buoyant andpure existence. If youth will enjoy itself virtuously with gymnastics,with music, with friendship, with poetry, there will come no hours oflamentation and repentance. They attend the imbecile and thoughtless.These halcyon days will return to temper and grace the period of oldage; as upon the ripened peach reappear the hues of its earlyblossoms.Among his seniors the youth perceives a certain jealousy of him. Theypretend that all has been said and done. They awe him with their greatnames. He has to learn, that, though Jew and Greek have spoken,nevertheless he must reiterate and interpret to his own people andgeneration. Perchance in the process something new will likewise beadded. Many things still wait an observer. Still is there infinitehope and expectation, which youth must realize. In war, in peace, inpolitics, in books, all eyes are turned to behold the rising of hisstar.Reluctantly does the youth yield to the claims of moderation andreserve. Abandonment to an object has hitherto been his highestwisdom. But in the pursuit of the most heroic friendship, or the mostsovereign passion, the youth discovers that a certain continence isnecessary. He cannot approach too closely; for that moment love ischanged into disgust and hate. He would drink the nectar to the lees.This is one of Nature's limitations, and has many analogies; and hewho would never see the bottom of any cup, and always be possessedwith a divine hunger, must observe them. I remember how it piqued mychildish curiosity that the moon seemed always to retreat when I rantowards her, and to pursue when I fled. It was a very significantsymbol. Stand a little apart, and things of their own accord will comemore than half-way. Nobody ever goes to meet a loafer. Self-centred,domesticated persons attract. What would be the value of the heavens,if we could bring the stars into our lap? They cannot be approached orappropriated. Upon the highest mountain the horizon sinks you in avalley, and far aloft in night and mystery gleam the retreating stars.It must be remembered that indirect vision is much more delicate thandirect. Looking askance, with a certain oblique and upward glance,constitutes the art and power of the poet; for so a gentle invitationis offered the imagination to contribute its aid. We see clearest whenthe eye is elongated and slightly curtained. Persons with round,protuberant eyes are obliged to reduce their superfluous visual powerby artificial means. We subordinate the external organ in order toliberate the inner eye of the mind. The musing, pensive Hindoos, whohave elongated eyes, look through the surface of things to theiressence, and call the world Illusion,--the illusory energy of Vishnu.There is a vulgar trick of wishing to touch everything. But thegreatest caution is necessary, in beholding a statue or painting, notto draw too near; and it is thus with every other beautiful thing.Nature secretly writes, _Hands off!_--and men do but translate herhieroglyph in their galleries and museums. The sense of touch is onlya provision against the loss of sight and hearing. We should cultivatethese, until, like the Scandinavian Heimdal, we can hear the trees andthe flowers grow, and see with Heraclitus the breathing of the stars.The youth once loved Nature after this somewhat gross and materialfashion, for the berries she gave him, the flowers she wove in hishair, and the brooks that drove his mimic mills. He chased thebutterfly, he climbed the trees, he would stand in the rain, paint hischeeks with berry juice, dabble in the mud, and nothing was securefrom his prying fingers and curious eyes. He must touch and taste ofeverything, and know every secret. But it eluded him; and he lay downfrom his giddy chase, tired and unsatisfied, yet still anticipatingthat the morning would reveal all. Later he approaches men and thingsin a different mood. Experience has taught him so much. He begins tofeel the use of the past. Memory renders many present advantages asnothing, and there is a rare and peculiar value to every reminiscencethat connects him with the years from which he is so fast receding.The bower which his own hands wove from birch-trees and interwove withgreen brakes, where at the noon-time he was wont to retreat from thehot school-house, with the little maid of his choice, and beguile thehour so happily, suggests a spell and charm to preserve him inperpetual childhood.       *       *       *       *       *PINTAL.In San Francisco, in 1849, on Dupont Street near Washington, awretched tent, patched together from mildewed and weather-worn sails,was pitched on a hill-side lot, unsightly with sand and thorny bushes,filthy cast-aways of clothing, worn-out boots, and broken bottles. Theforlorn loneliness of this poor abode, and the perfection of itsCalifornianness, in all the circumstances of exposure, frailness,destitution, and dirt, were enough of themselves to make it an objectof interest to the not-too-busy passer; yet, to complete its pitifulpicturesqueness, Pathos had bestowed a case of miniatures and abeautiful child. Beside the entrance of the tent a rough shingle wasfastened to the canvas, and against this hung an unpaintedpicture-frame of pine, in humble counterpart of those gilded rosewoodsigns which, at the doors of Daguerreotype galleries, display fancy"specimens" to the goers-to-and-fro of Broadway. Attracted by anobject so novel in San Francisco then, I paused one morning, in mywalk officeward from the "Anglo-Saxon Dining-Saloon," to examine it.There were six of them,--six dainty miniature portraits on ivory,elaborately finished, and full of the finest marks of talent. Thewhole were seemingly reproductions of but two heads, a lady's and achild's,--the lady well fitted to be the mother of the child, whichmight well have been divine. There were three studies of each; eachwas presented in three characters, chosen as by an artist possessed ofa sentiment of sadness, some touching reminiscence.In one picture, the lady--evidently English, a pensive blonde, withlarge and most sweet blue eyes curtained by the longest lashes,regular and refined features suggestive of pure blood, budding lipsfull of sensibility, a chin and brow that showed intellect as well aslineage, and cheeks touched with the young rose's tint--was as abeautiful _debutante_, the flower of rich drawing-rooms, in her firstseason: one white moss-rosebud in her smoothly-braided hair; herdimpled, round, white shoulders left to their own adornment; and forjewels, only one opal on her ripening bosom;--as much of her dress aswas shown was the simple white bodice of pure maidenhood.In the next, she had passed an interval of trial, for her courage, herpatience, and her pride,--a very few years, perhaps, but enough tobestow that haughty, defiant glance, and fix those matchless featuresin an almost sneer. No longer was her fair head bowed, her eyesdowncast, in shrinking diffidence; but erect and commanding, shelooked some tyranny, or insolence, or malice, in the face, to look itdown. Jewels encircled her brow, and a bouquet of pearls was happy onher fuller bosom.Still a few years further on,--and how changed! "So have I seen arose," says that Shakspeare of the pulpit, old Jeremy Taylor, when ithas "bowed the head and broke its stalk; and at night, having lostsome of its leaves and all its beauty, it has fallen into the portionof weeds and outworn faces." Alas, Farewell, and Nevermore sighed fromthose hollow cheeks, those woebegone eyes, those pallid lips, thatwillow-like long hair, and the sad vesture of the forsaken Dido.So with the child. At first, a rosy, careless, curly-pate of threeyears or so,--wonder-eyed and eager, all spring and joyance, andbeautiful as Love.Then pale and pain-fretted, heavy-eyed and weary, feebly half-lying ina great chair, still,--an unheeded locket scarce held by his thinfingers, his forehead wrinkled with cruel twinges, the sweet bowedlines of his lips twisted in whimpering puckers, the curls upon hisvein-traced temples unnaturally bright, as with clamminess,--a painfulpicture for a mother's eyes!But not tragic, like the last; for there the boy had grown. Nine yearshad deepened for his clustered curls their hue of golden brown, andset a seal of anxious thought upon the cold, pale surface of hisintellectual brow, and traced his mouth about with lines of a martyr'sresignation, and filled his profound eyes, dim as violets, withforeboding speculation, making the lad seem a seer of his own sadfate. Here, thought I, if I mistake not, is another melancholy chapterin this San Franciscan romance. This painter learned his art ofSorrow, and pitiless Experience has bestowed his style; he shall befor my finding-out.Home-sickness had marked me for its own one day. I sat alone in myrude little office, conning over again for the hundredth time strangechapters of a waif's experience,--reproducing auld-lang-syne, with allits thronged streets and lonely forest-paths, its old familiar faces,talks, and songs,--ingathering there, in the name of Love orFriendship, forms that were dim and voices that were echoes; and manyan "alas," and "too late," and "it might have been," they broughtalong with them.  "Let this remembrance comfort me,--that when  My heart seemed bursting,--like a restless wave  That, swollen with fearful longing for the shore,  Throws its strong life on the imagined bliss  Of finding peace and undisturbed calm,--  It fell on rocks and broke in many tears.  "Else could I bear, on all days of the year,--  Not now alone, this gentle summer night,  When scythes are busy in the headed grass,  And the full moon warms me to thoughtfulness,--  This voice that haunts the desert of my soul:  'It might have been!' Alas! 'It might have been!'"I drew from my battered, weather-beaten sea-box sad store of oldletters, bethumbed and soiled,--an accusation in every one of them,and small hope of forgiveness, save what the gentle dead might render.There were pretty little portraits, too.--Ah, well! I put them back,--a frown, or a shadow of reproachful sadness, on the picture of aonce loving and approving face is the hardest bitterness to bide, theself-unsparing wanderer can know. Therefore I would fain let thesefaces be turned from me,--all save one, a merry minx of maidenhood, ofcareless heart, and laughing lips, and somewhat naughty eyes. It was asteel engraving, not of the finest, torn from some Book of Beauty, orother silly-sentimental keepsake of the literary catch-penny class,brought all the way from home, and tenderly saved for the sake of itsstrange by-chance resemblance to a smart little _lionne_ I had knownin Virginia, in the days when smart little _lionnes_ made me a sort ofpuppy Cumming. The picture, unframed, and exposed to all the chancesof rough travel, had partaken of my share of foul weather and coarsehandling, and been spotted and smutched, and creased and torn, andevery way defaced. I had often wished that I might have a prettypainting made from it, before it should be spoiled past copying. Sohere, I thought, shall be my introduction to my fly-in-amber artist,of the seedy tent and the romantic miniatures. So pocketing mypicture, I hied me forthwith to Dupont Street.The tent seemed quite deserted. At first, I feared my rare bird hadflitted; I shook the bit of flying-jib that answered for a door, andcalled to any one within, more than once, before an inmate stirred.Then, so quietly that I had not heard his approach, a lad, of tenperhaps, came to the entrance, and, timidly peering up into my face,asked, "Is it my father you wish to see, Sir?"How beautiful! how graceful! with what touching sweetness of voice!how intellectual his expression, and how well-bred his air!--plainly agentleman's son, and the son of no common gentleman! Instinctively Idrew back a pace to compare him with the child of the "specimens."Unquestionably the same,--there were the superior brow, the richlyclustered curls of golden brown, the painful lips, and the forebodingeyes."If your father painted these pretty pictures, my boy,--yes, I wouldbe glad to see him, if he is within.""He is not here at present, Sir; he went with my mother to the ship,to bring away our things. But it is quite a long while since theywent; and I think they will return presently. Take a seat, Sir,please."I accepted the stool he offered,--a canvas one, made to "unship" andfold together,--such a patent accommodation for tired "hurdies" asamateur sketchers and promiscuous lovers of the picturesque inlandscape take with them on excursions. My accustomed eye took in at aglance the poor furniture of that very Californian make-shift of ashelter for fortune-seeking heads. There were chests, boxes, andtrunks, the usual complement, bestowed in every corner, as they couldbest be got out of the way,--a small, rough table, on temporary legs,and made, like the seats, to unship and be stowed,--several other ofthe same canvas stools,--a battered chest of drawers, at present doingthe duty of a cupboard,--some kitchen utensils, and a few articles oftable furniture of the plainest delft. As for the kitchen, I hadnoticed, as I passed, a portable furnace for charcoal, without, and atthe rear of the tent; it was plain they did their cooking in the openair. On one side of the entrance, and near the top of the tent, asmall square had been cut from the canvas, and the sides framed withslats of wood, making a sort of Rembrandtish skylight, through whichsome scanty rays of barbaric glory fell on an easel, with its palette,brushes, and paints. A canvas framed, on which the ground had beenlaid, and the outline of a head already traced, was mounted on theeasel; other such frames, as if of finished portraits with their facesturned to the wall, stood on the earthen floor, supported by a stripof wood tacked to the tent-cloth near the bottom. On the floor, at thefoot of the easel, lay an artist's sketch-book. A part of the tentbehind was divided off from what, by way of melancholy jest, I maycall the reception-room, or the studio, by a rope stretched across,from which were suspended a blanket, a travelling shawl, and avoluminous, and evidently costly, Spanish cloak. Protruding beyond theedge of this extemporaneous screen, I could see the footposts of aniron bedstead, and the end of a large _poncho_, which served for acounterpane."Will you amuse yourself with this sketch-book, please," said thepretty lad, "till my father comes?""With pleasure, my boy,--if you are sure your father will not object.""Oh, no, indeed, Sir! My father has told me I must always entertainany gentlemen who may call when he is out,--that is, if he is toreturn soon; and any one may look at this book;--it is only hisportfolio, in which he sketches whatever new or pretty things we seeon our travels; but there are some very nice pictures init,--landscapes, and houses, and people.""Have you travelled much, then?""Oh, yes! we have been travelling ever since I can remember; we havebeen far, and seen a great many strange sights, and some such queerpeople!--There! that is our shepherd in Australia; isn't he funny? hisname was Dirk. I tied that blue ribbon round his straw hat, that seemsbig enough for an umbrella. He looks as if he were laughing, doesn'the? That's because I was there when my father sketched him; and hemade such droll faces, with his brown skin and his great grizzlymoustaches, when father told him he must make up a pleasantexpression, that it set me laughing,--for my father said he lookedlike a Cape lion making love; and then Dirk would laugh too, and spoilhis pleasant expression; and father would scold; and it was so funny!I loved Dirk very much, he was so good to me; he gave me a tamekangaroo, and a black swan, and taught me to throw the boomerang; andonce, when he went to Sydney, he spent ever so much money to buy me asilver bell for Lipse, my yellow lamb. I wonder if Dirk is living yet?Do you think he is dead, Sir? I should be very much grieved, if hewere; for I promised I would come back to see him when I am a man."--"_That_ is Dolores,--dear old Dolores! Isn't she fat?""Yes, and good, too, I should think, from the kind face she has. Whowas Dolores?""Ah! you never saw Dolores, did you? And you never heard her sing. Shewas my Chilena nurse in Valparaiso; and she had a mother--oh, so veryold!--who lived in Santiago. We went once to see her; the otherSantiago--that was Dolores's son--drove us there in the _veloche_.Wasn't it curious, his name should be the same as the city's? But hewas a bad boy, Santiago,--so mischievous! such a scamp! Father had towhip him many times; and once the _vigilantes_ took him up, and wouldhave put him in the chain-gang, for cutting an American sailor with aknife, in the Calle de San Francisco, if father had not paid fiveounces, and become security for his good behavior. But he ran away,after all, and went as a common sailor in a nasty guano ship. Dolorescried very much, and it was long before she would sing for me again.Oh, she did know such delightful songs!--_Mi Nina_, and _Yo tengo OjosNegros_, and  "'No quiero, no quiero casarme;  Es mejor, es mejor soltera!'"And the delightful little fellow merrily piped the whole of that "songof pleasant glee," one of the most melodious and sauciest bits oflyric coquetry to be found in Spanish."Ah," said he, "but I cannot sing it half so well as Dolores. She hada beautiful guitar, with a blue ribbon, that her sweetheart gave herbefore I was born, when she was young and very pretty;--he brought itall the way from Acapulco."--"And _that_ pretty girl is Juanita; she sold pine-apples and grapesin the Almendral, and every night she would go with her guitar--it wasa very nice one, but did not cost near so much money as Dolores's--andsing to the American gentlemen in the Star Hotel. My mother said shewas a naughty person, and that she did not dare tell where she got hergold cross and those jet ear-rings. But I liked her very much, for allthat; and I'm sure she would not steal, for she used to give me afresh pine-apple every morning; and whenever her brother Jose camedown from Casa Blanca with the mules and the _pisco_, she sent me alarge melon and some lovely roses."--"That is the house we lived in at Baltimore. It was painted white,and there was a paling in front, and a dooryard with grass. We hadsome honeysuckles on the porch;--there they are, and there's thegrape-vine. I had a dog-house, too, made to look like a church, and myfather promised to buy me a Newfoundland dog,--one of those greathairy fellows, with brass collars, you know, that you can rideon,--when he had sold a great many pictures, and made his fortune. Butwe did not make our fortune in Baltimore, and I never got my dog; sowe came here to Tom Tiddler's ground, to pick up gold and silver. Whenwe are fixed, and get a new tent, my father is going to give me alittle spade and a cradle, to dig gold enough to buy a Newfoundlanddog with, and then I shall borrow a saw and make a dog-house, like theone I had in Baltimore, out of that green chest. Charley Saunderslived in that next house in the picture, and he had a martin-box, witha steeple to it; but his father gave fencing-lessons, and was veryrich."As the intelligent little fellow ran on with his pretty prattle, I wasdiligently pursuing the lady and child of the specimens through thesketches. On every leaf I encountered them, ever changing, yet alwaysthe same. Here was the child by my side,--unquestionably the same;though now I looked in vain for the anxious mouth and the forebodingeyes in his face of careless, hopeful urchinhood. But who was theother?--his mother, no doubt; and yet no trace of resemblance."And tell me, who is this beautiful lady, my lad,--here, and here, andhere, and here again? You see I recognize her always,--so lovely, andso gentle-looking. Your mother?""Oh, no, Sir!" and he laughed,--"my mother is very different fromthat. That is nobody,--only a fancy sketch.""Only a fancy sketch!" So, then, I thought, my pretty entertainer,confiding and communicative as you are, it is plain there are somethings you do not know, or will not tell."She is not any one we ever saw;--she never lived. My father made herout of his own head, as I make stories sometimes; or he dreamed her,or saw her in the fire. But he is very fond of her, I suppose, becausehe made her himself,--just as I think my own stories prettier than anytrue ones; and he's always drawing her, and drawing her, and drawingher. I love her, too, very much,--she looks so natural, and has suchnice ways. Isn't it strange my father--but he's _so_ clever with hispencil and brushes!--should be able to invent the Lady Angelica?--that's her name. But my mother does not like her at all, andgets out of patience with my father for painting so many of her.Mamma says she has a stuck-up expression,--such a funny word,'stuck-up'!--and does not look like a lady. Once I told mamma I wassure she was only jealous, and she grew very angry, and made me cry;so now I never speak of Lady Angelica before her. What makes me thinkmy father must have dreamed her is that I dreamed her once myself. Ithought she came to me in such a splendid dress, and told me that shewas not only a live lady, but my own mother, and that mamma was----Hush! This is my father, Sir."Wonderful! how the lad had changed!--like a phantom, the thoughtlessprattler was gone in a moment, and in his place stood the seer-boy ofthe picture, the profound foreboding eyes fixed anxiously, earnestly,on the singular man who at that moment entered: a singularly smallman, cheaply but tidily attired in black; even his shoes polished,--arare and dandyish indulgence in San Francisco, before the Frenchbootblacks inaugurated the sumptuary vanity of Day and Martin's lustreon the stoop of the California Exchange, and made it a necessity noless than diurnal ablutions; a well-preserved English hat on his head,which, when he with a somewhat formal air removed it, discovered thinblack locks, beginning to part company with the crown of his head. Inhis large, brown eyes an expression of moving melancholy wasestablished; a nervous tremulousness almost twitched his refined lips,which, to my surprise, were not concealed by the universalmoustache,--indeed, the smooth chin and symmetrically trimmedmutton-chop whiskers, in the orthodox English mode, showed that theman shaved. His nose, slightly aquiline, was delicately cut, and hisnostrils fine; and he had small feet and hands, the latter remarkablywhite and tender. As he stood before me, he was never at rest for aninstant, but changed his support from one leg to the other,--they wereslight as a young boy's,--and fumbled, as it were, with his feet; as Ihave seen a distinguished medical lecturer, of Boston, gesticulatewith his toes. He played much with his whiskers, too, and his fingerswere often in his hair--as a fidgety and vulgar man would bite hisnails. From all of which I gathered that my new acquaintance was anintensely nervous person,--very sensitive, of course, and no doubtirritable.He was accompanied by a--female, much taller than he, and as stalwartas dear woman can be; an especially common-looking person, bungled asto her dress, which was tawdry-fine, unseasonable for the place aswell as time, inappropriate to herself, inharmonious in itscomposition, and every way most vilely put on; a clumsy and, as Ipresently perceived, a loud person, whose face, still showing tracesof the coarse but decided beauty it must once have possessed, fell farshort of compensating for the complete gracelessness of her presence.Her eyes had a bibulous quality, and the bright redness of her nosevied vulgarly with the rusty redness of her cheeks. I suspected hercomplexion of potations, but charitably let it off with--beer; for shewas, at first glance, English. As she jerked off her flaunting bonnet,and dragged off her loud shawl, saluting me, as she did so, with anoverdone obeisance, she said, "This San Fanfrisko"--why would she, howcould she, always twist the decent name of the metropolis of thePacific into such an absurd shape?--"was a norrid 'ole; she happealedto the gentleman,"--meaning me,--"didn't 'e find it a norrid 'ole,habsolutely hawful?" And then she went clattering among tinware andcrockery, and snubbed the gentlemanly boy in a sort of tenderBillingsgate.While she was thus gracefully employed, the agonized artist, his facesuffused with blushes and fairly ghastly with an enforced smile, waspainfully struggling to abstract himself, by changing the places ofthings, shifting the position of his easel, prying in a lost way intolumbered corners, and pretending to be in search of something,--ingenious, but unable to disguise his chagrin. He prancedwith his legs, and tumbled his hair, and twitched at his whiskers morethan ever, as he said,--"My dear," (and the boy had called her Mamma; so, then, it must be afancy sketch, after all,) "my dear, no doubt the gentleman is more acosmopolite than yourself, and blessed with more facility in adaptinghimself to circumstances.""You know, Madam," I came to his assistance, "we Americans have afamous trick of living and enjoying a little in advance, of 'goingahead' of the hour, as it were. We find in San Francisco rather whatit promises to be than what it is, and we take it at its word.""Oh, pray, don't mention Americans! I positively 'ate the hodiouspeople. I confess I 'ave a hinsurmountable prejudice hagainst therace; you are not haware that I am Hinglish. I think I might endureheven San Fanfrisko, if it were not for the Americans. Are you anAmerican?"Alternating between the pallor of rage and the flush of mortification,her husband now turned, with a calmness that had something ofdesperation in it, and saved me the trouble and the pain of replying,by asking, in the frigid tone of one who resented my presence as thecause of his shame,--"Did you wish to see me on business, Sir? and have you been waitinglong?""The success with which your charming little boy has entertained mehas made the time seem very short. I could willingly have waitedlonger."That last remark was a mere _contretemps_. I did not mean to be assevere as he evidently thought me, for he bowed haughtily andresentfully.I came at once to business,--drew from my pocket the engraving I hadbrought,--"Could he copy that for me?""How?--in miniature or life-size?--ivory or canvas?""You are, then, a portrait-painter, also?--Ah! to be sure!" and Iglanced at the canvas on the easel."Certainly,--I prefer to make portraits.""And in this case I should prefer to have one. Extravagant as thevanity may seem, I am willing to indulge in it, for the sake of beingthe first, in this land of primitive wants and fierce unrefinements,to take a step in the direction of the Fine Arts,--unless you have hadcalls upon your pencil already.""None, Sir.""Then to-morrow, if you please,--for I cannot remain longer atpresent,--we will discuss my whim in detail.""I shall be at your service, Sir.""Good day, Madam! And you, my pretty lad, well met,--what is yourname?""Ferdy, Sir,--Ferdinand Pintal."At that moment, his father, as if reminded of a neglected courtesy, ora business form, handed me his card,--"Camillo Alvarez y Pintal.""Thanks, then, Ferdy, for the pains you took to entertain me. You mustlet me improve an acquaintance so pleasantly begun."The boy's hand trembled as it lay in mine, and his eyes, fixed uponhis father's, wore again the ominous expression of the picture. He didnot speak, and his father took a step toward the door significantly.But the doleful silence that might have attended my departure wasbroken by a demonstration, "as per sample," from my country's fair andgentle 'ater. "She 'oped I would not be hoffended by the freedom of'er hobservations on my countrymen. I must hexcuse 'er Hinglishbluntness; she was haware that she 'ad a somewhat hoff-'and way ofhexpressing 'er hemotions; but when she 'ated she 'ated, and itrelieved 'er to hout with it hat once. Certainly she wouldnever--bless 'er 'eart, no!--'ave taken me for an American; I was sohuncommonly genteel."With my hand upon the region of my heart, as I had seen stars, whencalled before the curtain on the proudest evening of their lives, giveanatomical expression to their overwhelming sense of the honor donethem, I backed off, hat in hand."Camillo Alvarez y Pintal," I read again, as I approached the Plaza."Can this man be Spanish, then? Surely not;--how could he haveacquired his excellent English, without a trace of foreign accent, orthe least eccentricity of idiom? His child, too, said nothing of that.English, no doubt, of Spanish parentage; or,--oh, patience! I shallknow by-and-by, thanks to my merry Virginia jade, who shall be arrayedin resplendent hues, and throned in a golden frame, if she but feed mycuriosity generously enough."Next day, in the afternoon, having bustled through my daily programmeof business, I betook myself with curious pleasure to my appointmentwith Pintal. To my regret, at first, I found him alone; but I derivedconsolation from the assurance, that, wherever the engaging boy hadgone, his mother had accompanied him. Even more than at my firstvisit, the artist was frigidly reserved and full of warning-offpoliteness. With but a brief prelude of courteous commonplaces, hecalled me to the business of my visit.My picture, as I have said, was a fairly executed steel engraving,taken from some one of the thousands of "Tokens," or "Keepsakes," or"Amulets," or "Gems," or such like harmless giftbooks, with whichyouths of tender sentiment remind preoccupied damsels of their careful_penchants_. It represented an "airy, fairy Lilian" of eighteen, orthereabouts, lolling coquettishly, fan in hand, in an antique,high-backed chair, with "carven imageries," and a tasselled cushion.She rejoiced in a profusion of brown ringlets, and her costume waspretty and quaint,--a dainty chemisette, barred with narrow bands ofvelvet, as though she had gone to Switzerland, or the South of Italy,for the sentiment of her bodice,--sleeves quaintly puffed and"slashed,"--the ample skirt looped up with rosettes and natty littleends of ribbon; her feet beneath her petticoat, "like little mice,"stole out, "as if they feared the light." Somewhere, among the manyeditions of Dickens's works, I have seen a Dolly Varden that resembledher.It was agreed between us that she should be reproduced in a life-sizeportrait, with such a distribution of rich colors as the subjectseemed to call for, as his fine taste might select, and his cunninghand lay on. I sought to break down his reserve, and make myselfacceptable to him, by the display of a discreet geniality, and acertain frankness, not falling into familiarity, which should seem toproceed from sympathy, and a _bonhommie_, that, assured of its ownkindly purpose, would take no account of his almost angry distance.The opportunity was auspicious, and I was on the alert to turn it toaccount. I made a little story of the picture, and touched it withromance. I told him of Virginia,--especially of that part of the Statein which this saucy little lady lived,--of its famous scenery, itshistoric places, and the peculiar features of its society. I strove tomake the lady present to his mind's eye by dwelling on her certaineccentricities, and helping my somewhat particular description of hercharacter with anecdotes, more or less pointed and amusing, especiallyto so grave a foreigner, of her singular ready-wittedness and gracefulaudacity. Then I had much to say about her little "ways" of attitude,gesture, and expression, and some hints to offer for slight changes inthe finer lines of the face, and in the expression, which might makethe likeness more real to both of us, and, by getting up an interestin him for the picture, procure his favorable impression for myself.I had the gratification, as my experiment proceeded, to find that itwas by no means unsuccessful. His austerity appreciably relaxed, andthe kindly tone into which his few, but intelligent observationsgradually fell, was accompanied by an encouraging smile, when thedrift of our talk was light. Then I spoke of his child, and eagerlypraised the beauty, the intelligence, and sweet temper of the lad.'Twas strange how little pleasure he seemed to derive from my sincereexpressions of admiration; indeed, the slight satisfaction he didpermit himself to manifest appeared in his words only, not at all inhis looks; for a shade of deep sadness fell at once upon his handsomeface, and his expression, so full of sensibility, assumed the cast ofanxiety and pain. "He thanked me for my eloquent praises of the boy,and--not too partially, he hoped--believed that he deserved them all.A prize of beauty and of love had fallen to him in his little Ferdy,for which he would be grieved to seem ungrateful. But yet--butyet--the responsibility, the anxiety, the ceaseless fretting care!This fierce, unbroken city";--he spoke of it as though it were anewly-lassoed and untamed mustang,--I liked the simile; "this lawless,blasphemous, obscene, and dangerous community; these sights ofheartlessness and cruelty; these sounds of selfish, greedy contention;the absence of all taste and culture,--no lines of beauty, no strainsof music, no tones of kindness, no gestures of gentleness and grace,no delicate attentions, no ladies' presence, no social circle, nobooks, no home, no church;--Good God! what a heathenish barbarism ofcoarse instincts, and irreverence, and insulting equalities, and allmanner of gracelessnesses, to bring the dangerous impressionability offine childhood to! The boy was nervous, sensitive, of a spirit quickto take alarms or hurts,--physically unprepared to wrestle witharduous toil, privation, and exposure,--most apt for the teachings ofgentleness and taste. It was cruel to think--he could wish him deadfirst--that his clean, white mind must become smeared and spottedhere, his well-tuned ear reconciled to loud discords, and his fine eyeat peace with deformity; but there was no help for it." And then, asthough he had suddenly detected in my face an expression of surpriseddiscovery, he said, "But I am sure I do not know how I came to say somuch, or let myself be tedious with sickly egotisms to a polite, butindifferent, stranger. If you have gathered from them more than Imeant should appear, you will at least do me the justice to believethat I have not been boasting of what I regard as a calamity."I essayed to reassure him by urging upon his consideration themanifest advantages of courage, self-reliance, ingenuity, quick andeconomical application of resources, independence, and perseverance,which his son, if well-trained, must derive from even those rudesurroundings,--at the same time granting the necessity of sleeplessvigilance and severe restraints. But he only shook his head sadly, andsaid, "No doubt, no doubt; and I hope, Sir, the fault is in myself,that I do not appreciate the force and value of all that."The subject was so plainly full of a peculiar pain for him, he was soill at mind on this point, that I could not find it in my heart topursue it further at the cost of his feelings. So we talked of otherthings: of gold, and the placers, and their unimpaired productiveness,--of the prospects of the country, and of the character themineral element must stamp upon its politics, its commerce, andits social system,--of San Francisco, and all the enchantments of itssudden upspringing,--of Alcaldes and town-councils,--of hounds andgamblers,--of real estate and projected improvements,--of canvashouses, and iron houses, and fires,--of sudden fortunes, and as suddenfailures,--of speculations and markets, and the prices of clothing,provisions, and labor,--of intemperance, disease, and hospitals,--ofbrawls, murder, and suicide,--till we had exhausted all theCalifornian budget; and then I bade him good day. He parted with mewith flattering reluctance, cordially shaking my hand and urging me torepeat my visit in a few days, when he should be sufficiently forwardwith the picture to admit me to a sight of it. I confessed myimpatience for the interval to pass; for my interest was now fullyawakened and very lively;--so well-informed and so polished agentleman, so accomplished and so fluent, so ill-starred and sad, soevery way a man with a history!I saw much of Pintal after this, and he sometimes visited me at myoffice. Impelled by increasing admiration and esteem, I succeeded bythe exercise of studious tact in ingratiating myself in his friendshipand confidence; he talked with freedom of his feelings and hisaffairs; and although he had not yet admitted me to the knowledge ofhis past, he evinced but little shyness in speaking of the present. Atour interviews in his tent I seldom met his wife; indeed, I suspectedhim of contriving to keep her out of the way; for I was always toldshe had just stepped out;--or if by chance I found her there, she wasnever again vulgarly loquacious, but on some pretext or other at oncetook herself away. On the other hand, the child was rarelyabsent,--from which I argued that I was in favor; nor was his prettyprattle, even his boldest communicativeness, harshly checked, savewhen, as I guessed, he was approaching too near some forbidden theme.Then a quick flash from his father's eye instantaneously imposedsilence upon him: as if that eye were an evil one, and there were amalison in its glance, the whole demeanor of the child underwent atonce a magical change; the foreboding look took possession of hisbeautiful eyes, the anxious lines appeared around his mouth, his lipsand chin became tremulous, his head drooped, he let fall my hand whichhe was fond of holding as he talked, and quietly, penitently slunkaway; and though he might presently be recalled by his father'skindliest tones, his brightness would not be restored that time.This mysterious, severe understanding between the father and the childaffected me painfully; I was at a loss to surmise its nature, whenceit proceeded, or how it could be; for Ferdy evinced in his every word,look, movement, an undivided fondness for his father. And in histender-proud allusions to the boy, at times let fall to me,--in theanxious watchfulness with which he followed him with his eye, when aninterval of peace and comparative happiness had set childhood's spiritfree, and lent a degree of graceful gayety to all his motions,--I sawthe brimming measure of the father's love. Could it be but hismorbidly repellant pride, his jealous guarding of the domesticprivacies, his vigilant pacing up and down forever before theclose-drawn curtain of the heart?--was there no Bluebeard's chamberthere? No! Pride was all the matter,--pride was the Spartan fox thattore the vitals of Pintal, while he but bit his lips, and bowed, andpassed.Among the pictures in Pintal's tent was one which had in an especialmanner attracted my attention. It was a cabinet portrait, nearlyfull-length, of a venerable gentleman, of grave but benevolent aspect,and an air of imposing dignity. Care had evidently been taken torender faithfully the somewhat remarkable vigor of his frame; hisiron-gray hair was cropped quite short, and he wore a heavy grizzledmoustache, but no other beard; the lines of his mouth were not severe,and his eye was soft and gentle. But what made the portraitparticularly noticeable was the broad red ribbon of a noble ordercrossing the breast, and a Maltese cross suspended from the neck by ashort chain of massive and curiously wrought links. I had many timesbeen on the point of asking the name of this singularly handsome anddistinguished-looking personage; but an instinctive feeling ofdelicacy always deterred me.One day I found little Ferdy alone, and singing merrily some prettySpanish song. I told him I was rejoiced to find him in such goodspirits, and asked him if he had not been having a jolly romp with theAmerican carpenter's son, who lived in the Chinese house close by. Myquestion seemed to afflict him with puzzled surprise;--he half smiled,as if not quite sure but I might be jesting."Oh, no, indeed! I have never played with him; I do not know him; Inever play with any boys here. Oh, no, indeed!""But why not, Ferdy? What! a whole month in this tiresome tent, andnot make the acquaintance of your nearest neighbor,--such a sturdy,hearty chunk of a fellow as that is?--I have no doubt he'sgood-natured, too, for he's fat and funny, tough and independent.Besides, he's a carpenter's son, you know; so there's a chance toborrow a saw to make the dog-house with. Who knows but his father willtake a fancy to you,--I'm sure he is very likely to,--and make you achurch dog-house, steeple and all complete and painted, and much finerthan Charley Saunders's martin-box?""Oh, I should like to, so much! And perhaps he has a Newfoundlanderwith a bushy tail and a brass collar,--that would be nicer than akangaroo. But--but"--looking comically bothered,--"I never knew acarpenter's son in my life. I am sure my father would not give mepermission,--I am sure he would be very angry, if I asked him. Arethey not very disagreeable, that sort of boys? Don't they swear, andtear their clothes, and fight, and sing vulgar songs, and tell lies,and sit down in the middle of the street?"Merciful Heaven! thought I,--here's a crying shame! here's aninteresting case for professors of moral hygiene! An apt, intelligentlittle man, with an empty mind, and a by-no-means overloaded stomach,I'll engage,--with a pride-paralyzed father, and a beer-bewitchedslattern of a mother,--with his living to get, in San Francisco, too,and the world to make friends with,--who has never enjoyed thepeculiar advantages to be derived from the society of little dirtyboys, never been admitted to the felicity of popular songs, norexercised his pluck in a rough-and-tumble, nor ventilated himself inwholesome "giddy, giddy, gout,"--to whom dirt-pies are a fable!"Ferdy," said I, "I'll talk with your father myself. But tell me, now,what makes you so happy to-day.""My father got a letter this morning,"--a mail had just arrived; itbrought no smile or tear for me,--no parallelogram of tragedy orcomedy in stationery,--"such a pleasant one, from my uncle Miguel, atFlorence, in Italy, you know. He is well, and quite rich, my fathersays; they have restored to him his property that he thought was alllost forever, and they have made him a chevalier again. But I am suremy father will tell you all about it, for he said he did hope youwould come to-day; and he is so happy and so kind!""They have made him a chevalier again," I wondered. "Your uncle Miguelis your father's brother, then, Ferdy. And did you ever see him?"Before he could reply, Pintal entered, stepping smartly, his colorheightened with happiness, his eyes full of an extraordinary elation."Ah! my dear Doctor, I am rejoiced to find you here; I have beenwishing for you. See! your picture is finished. Tell me if you likeit.""Indeed, a work of beauty, Pintal.""To me, too, it never looked so well before; but I see things withglad eyes to-day. I have much to tell you. Ferdy, your mother isdining at the restaurant; go join her. And when you have finished yourdinner, ask her to take you to walk. Say that I am engaged. Would younot like to walk, my boy, and see how fast the new streets spring up?When you return, you can tell me of all you saw."The boy turned up his lovely face to be kissed, and for a moment hungfondly on his father's neck. The poor painter's lips quivered, and hiseyes winked quickly. Then the lad took his cap, and without anotherword went forth."I am happy to-day, Doctor,--Heaven save the mark! My happiness is somuch more than my share, that I shall insist, will ye, nill ye, onyour sharing it with me. I have a heart to open to somebody, and youare the very man. So, sit you down, and bear with my egotism, for Ihave a little tale to tell you, of who I am and how I came here. Thestory is not so commonplace but that your kindness will find, here andthere, an interesting passage in it."I have seen that that picture,"--indicating the one I have lastdescribed,--"attracted your attention, and that you were preventedfrom questioning me about it only by delicacy. That is my father'slikeness. He was of English birth, the younger son of a rich Liverpoolmerchant. An impulsive, romantic, adventurous boy, seized early with apassion for seeing the world, his unimaginative, worldly-wise father,practical and severe, kept him within narrow, fretting bounds, andimposed harsh restraints upon him. When he was but sixteen years old,he ran away from home, shipped before the mast, and, after severallong voyages, was discharged, at his own request, at Carthagena, wherehe entered a shipping-house as clerk, and, having excellent mercantiletalents, was rapidly promoted."Meantime, through a sister, the only remaining child, except ahalf-witted brother, he heard at long intervals from home. His fatherremained strangely inexorable, fiercely forbade his return, and becameviolent at the slightest mention of his name by his sister, or someold and attached servant; he died without bequeathing his forgiveness,or, of course, a single shilling. But the young man thrived with hisemployers, whose business growing rapidly more and more prosperous,and becoming widely extended, they transferred him to a branch houseat Malaga. Here he formed the acquaintance of the Don Francisco deZea-Bermudez, whose rising fortunes made his own."Zea-Bermudez was at that time engaged in large commercial operations.Although, under the diligent and ambitious teaching of his famousrelative, the profound, sagacious, patriotic, bold, and gloriouslyabused Jovellanos, he had become accomplished in politics, law, anddiplomacy, he seemed to be devoting himself for the present to largespeculations and the sudden acquisition of wealth, and to let thestate of the nation, the Cortes, and its schemes, alone."Only a young, beautiful, and accomplished sister shared his splendidestablishment in Malaga; and for her my father formed an engrossingattachment, reciprocated in the fullest, almost simultaneously withhis friendship for her brother. Zea favored the suit of thehigh-spirited and clever young Englishman, whose intelligence,independence, and perseverance, to say nothing of his good looks andhis engaging manners, had quite won his heart. By policy, too, no lessthan by pleasure, the match recommended itself to him;--my fatherwould make a famous junior-partner. So they were married under thename of Pintal, bestowed upon his favorite English clerk by theadventurous first patron at Carthagena, who had found the boy providedwith only a 'purser's name,' as sailors term it."I will not be so disrespectful to the memory of my distinguisheduncle, nor so rude toward your intelligence, my friend, as to presumethat you are not familiar with the main points of his history,--thegreat strides he took, almost from that time, in a most influentialdiplomatic career: the embassy to St. Petersburg, and theRomanzoff-Bermudez treaty of amity and alliance in 1812, by whichAlexander acknowledged the legality of the ordinary and extraordinaryCortes of Cadiz; the embassy to the Porte in 1821; his recall in 1823,and extraordinary mission to the Court of St. James; his appointmentto lead the Ministry in 1824; my father's high place in the Treasury;their joint efforts from this commanding position to counteract theviolence of the Apostolical party, to meet the large requisitions ofFrance, to cover the deficit of three hundred millions of reals, andto restore the public credit; the insults of the Absolutists, andtheir machinations to thwart his liberal and sagacious measures; hisefforts to resign, opposed by the King; the suppression of aformidable Carlist conspiracy in 1825; the execution of Bessieres, andthe 'ham-stringing' of Absolutist leaders; his dismissal from theMinistry in October, 1825, Ferdinand yielding to the Apostolic storm;the embassy to Dresden; his appointment as Minister at London."And here my story begins, for I was his Secretary of Legation then;while my brother Miguel, younger than I, was _attache_ at Paris, wherehe had succeeded me, on my promotion,--a promotion that procured forme congratulations for which I could with difficulty affect a decentshow of gratitude, for I knew too well what it meant. It was not theenlightened, liberal Minister I had to deal with, but the hard, prouduncle, full of expediencies, and calculating schemes for familyadvancement, and the exaltation of a lately obscure name."In Paris I had been admitted first to the flattering friendship, andthen to the inmost heart of--of a most lovely young lady, as noble byher character as by her lineage,"--and he glanced at the opensketch-book."The Lady Angelica," I quietly said."Sir!" he exclaimed, quickly changing color, and assuming his mostfrigid expression and manner. But as quickly, and before I couldspeak, his sad smile and friendly tone returned, and he said,--"Ah! I see,--Ferdy has been babbling of his visions and his dreams.Yes, the Lady Angelica. 'Very charming,' my uncle granted, 'but verypoor; less of the angel and more of the heiress was desirable,' hesaid,--'less heaven and more land. A decayed family was only a littleworse than an obscure one,--a poor knight not a whit more respectablethan a rich merchant. I must relinquish my little romance,--I had nottime for it; I had occupation enough for the scant leisure my familyduties'--and he laid stress on the words--'left me in the duties of mypost. He would endeavor to find arguments for the lady and employmentfor me.'"It was in vain for me to remonstrate,--I was too familiar with myuncle's temper to waste my time and breath so. I would be silent, Iresolved, and pursue my honorable and gallant course without regard tohis scandalous schemes. I wrote to the 'Lady Angelica,'--since Ferdy'sname for her is so well chosen,--telling her all, giving her solemnassurances of my unchangeable purpose toward her, and scorn of myuncle's mercenary ambition. She replied very quietly: 'She, also, wasnot without pride; she would come and see for herself';--and she cameat once."The family arrived in London in the evening. Within two hours I wassent--after the fashion of an old-time courier, 'Ride! ride!ride!--for your life! for your life! for your life!'--to Turin withdespatches, and sealed instructions for my own conduct, not to beopened till I arrived; then I found my orders were, to remain at Turinuntil it should be my uncle's pleasure to recall me."I had not been in Turin a month when a letter came from------the LadyAngelica. 'It was her wish that all intercourse between us, byinterview or correspondence, should cease at once and forever. Sheassumed this position of her own free will, and she was resolute tomaintain it. She trusted that I would not inquire obtrusively into hermotives,--she had no fear that I would doubt that they were worthy ofher. Her respect for me was unabated,--her faith in me perfect. I hadher blessing and her anxious prayers. I must go on my way in bravesilence and patience, nor ever for one moment be so weak as to foolmyself into a hope that she would change her purpose.'"What should I do? I had no one to advise with; my mother, whose faithin her brother's wisdom was sure, was in Madrid, and my father hadbeen dead some years. At first my heart was full of bitter curses, andmy uncle had not at his heels a heartier hater than I. Then came themerely romantic thought, that this might be but a test she would putme to,--that he might be innocent and ignorant of my misfortune. Withthe thought I flung my heart into writing, and madly plied her withone long, passionate letter after another. I got no answers; but byhis spies my uncle was apprised of all I did."About this time,--it was in 1832,--Zea-Bermudez was recalled toMadrid in a grave crisis, and appointed to the administration offoreign affairs. Ferdinand VII. was apparently approaching the end ofhis reign and his life. The Apostolical party, exulting in theirstrength, and confiding in those well-laid plans which, with mice andmen, 'gang aft agley,' imprudently showed their hand, and sufferedtheir favorite project to transpire; which was, to set aside theordinance by which the King had made null the Salic law, in favor ofhis infant daughter, and to support the pretensions of the King'sbrother, Carlos, to the throne."By this stupid flourish the Apostolical party threw themselves boundat the feet of Zea. All of their persuasion who filled high placesunder government were without ceremony removed, and their seats filledby Liberals. Many of them did not escape without more crippling blows.As for me, I looked on with indifference, or at most some philosophicsneers. What had I to fear or care? In my uncle's estimation, mypolitics had been always healthy, no doubt; and although he had onmore than one occasion hinted, with sarcastic wit, that such alady's-man must, of his devoir, be a 'gallant champion of the Saliclaw,' and dropped something rude and ill-natured about my Englishblood,--still, that was only in his dyspeptic moods; his temper wassure to improve, I fancied, with his political and material digestion."But I deceived myself. When, in the name of the infant Queen,Isabella Segunda, and in honor of the reestablishment of order andpublic safety, the pleasant duty devolved upon Zea-Bermudez ofawarding approbation and encouragement to all the officers, from anambassador to the youngest _attache_ of foreign legations, andpresenting them with tokens of the nation's happiness in the shape ofstars, and seals with heraldic devices, and curious chains of historicsignificance, not even a paltry ribbon fell to my share, but only afew curt lines of advice, 'to look well to my opinions, and bemodest,--obediently to discharge the duties prescribed to me, andremember that presumption was a fault most intolerable in a younggentleman so favored by chance as to be honored with the confidence ofgovernment.'"That exhausted the little patience I had left. Savagely I tore thenote into contemptible fragments, tossed into my travelling-boxes asmuch of my wardrobe as happened to be at hand, consigned to a sealedcase my diplomatic instructions and all other documents pertaining tomy office, placed them in the hands of a confidential friend, Mr.Ballard, the British Agent, and secretly took passage for England,where, without losing an hour, I made the best of my way to the abodeof an ambitious cockney wine-merchant, to whose daughter I had notbeen disagreeable in other days, and within a fortnight married her.You have seen the lady, Sir," he said, eyeing me searchingly as hespoke, with a sardonic smile,--the only ugly expression I ever saw himwear."Certain title-deeds and certificates of stock, part of my father'slegacy, which, as if foreseeing the present emergency, I had broughtaway with me, were easily converted into cash. I had then twentythousand sterling pounds, to which my father-in-law generously addedten thousand more, by way of portion with his daughter."And now to what should I betake myself? I had small time to castabout me, and was easy to please; any tolerably promising enterprise,so the field of it were remote, would serve my purpose. The paperswere full of Australian speculations, the wonderful prosperity of theseveral colonies there, the great fortunes suddenly made in wool.Good! I would go to Australia, and be a gentle shepherd on an imposingscale. But first I sought out my father's old friends, my LordsPalmerston and Brougham, and the Bishop of Dublin, and besought theaid of their wisdom. With but slight prudential hesitation they withone accord approved my project. Observe: a first-rate Minister,especially if he be a very busy one, always likes the plan thatpleases his young friend best,--that is, if it be not an affair ofState, and all the risks lie with his young friend. They would havespoken of Turin and Zea-Bermudez; but I had been bred a diplomat andknew how to stick to my point, which, this time, was wool. In anotherfortnight I had sailed for Sydney with my shekels and my wife. Butfirst, and for the first time, I caused the announcement of mymarriage to appear in the principal papers of London, Paris, St.Petersburg, and Madrid."Arrived in Australia, I at once made myself the proprietor of aconsiderable farm, and stocked it abundantly with sheep. Speculationhad not yet burst itself, like the frog in the fable; and largesuccesses, as in water-lot and steamboat operations here, to-day, werethe rule. On the third anniversary of my landing at Sydney, I wasworth three hundred thousand pounds, and my commercial name was amongthe best in the colony. Six months after that, the rot, the infernalrot, had turned my thriving populous pastures into shambles forcarrion-mutton, and I had not sixpence of my own in the wide world. Afew of the more generous of my creditors left me a hundred pounds withwhich to make my miserable way to some South American port on thePacific."So I chose Valparaiso, to paint miniatures, and teach English,French, Italian, and German in. But earthquakes shook my poor house,and the storm-fiend shook my soul with fear;--for skies in lightningand thunder are to me as the panorama and hurly-burly of the Day ofWrath, in all the stupid rushing to and fro and dazed stumbling ofMartin's great picture. I shall surely die by lightning; I have nothad that live shadow of a sky-reaching fear hanging over me, with itsblack wings and awful mutterings, so long for nothing; in every flashmy eyes are scathed by the full blaze of hell. If I had been deaf andblind, I might have lived in Valparaiso. As it was, I must gosomewhere where I need not sit all day and night stopping my ears andwith my face covered, fearing that the rocks would fall upon me toosoon."So, with my wife and the child,--we have had no other, thank God!--Igot round Cape Horn--Heaven knows how! I dare not think of thattime--to the United States. We were making for Boston; but the ship,strained by long stress of heavy weather, sprung a leak, and we put inat Baltimore. I was pleased with the place; it is picturesque, and hasa kindly look; and as all places were alike to me then, save by thechoice of a whim, I let go my weary anchor there."But the Baltimoreans only admired my pictures,--they did not buythem; they only wondered at my polyglot accomplishment, and werecontent with ringing silly-kind changes on an Encyclopaedic complimentabout the Admirable Crichton, and other well-educated personages, tobe found alphabetically embalmed in Conversations-Lexicons,--they didnot inquire into my system of teaching, or have quarterly knowledge ofmy charges. So I fled from Baltimore, pretty speeches, and starvation,to San Francisco, plain talk, and pure gold. And now--see here,Sir!--I carry these always about with me, lest the pretty pickings ofthis Tom Tiddler's ground should make my experience forget."He drew from his pocket an "illuminated" card, bearing a likeness ofQueen Victoria, and a creased and soiled bit of yellow paper. The onewas, by royal favor, a complimentary pass to a reserved place inWestminster Abbey, on the occasion of the coronation of her BritannicMajesty, "For the Senor Camillo Alvarez y Pintal, Chevalier of theNoble Order of the Cid, Secretary to His Catholic Majesty's Legationnear the Court of St. James,"--the other, a Sydney pawnbroker's ticketfor books pledged by "Mr. Camilla Allverris i Pintal." He held thesecontrasted certificates of Fortune,--her mocking visiting-cards, whenshe called on him in palace and in cabin,--one in each hand for amoment; and bitterly smiling, and shaking his head, turned from one tothe other. Then suddenly he let them fall to the ground, and, buryinghis face in his hands, was roughly shaken through all his frame by agreat gust of agony.I laid my hand tenderly on his shoulder: "But, Pintal," I said,--"theLady Angelica,--tell me why she chose that course."In a moment the man was fiercely aroused. "Ah, true! I had forgottenthat delectable passage in my story. Why, man, Bermudez went to her,told her that my aspirations and my prospects were so and so,--faring,brilliant,--that she, only she, stood in the way, an impassablestumbling-block to my glorious advancement,--told her, (devil!) that,with all my fine passion for her, he was aware that I was not withoutembarrassment on this score,--appealed to her disinterested love, toher pride,--don't you see?--to her pride.""And where is she now, Pintal?"No anger now, no flush of excitement;--the man, all softened as by anangel's touch, arose, and, with clasped hands and eyes upturneddevoutly, smiled through big tears, and without a word answered me.I, too, was silent. Whittier had not yet written,--  "Of all sad words of tongue or pen  The saddest are these: 'It might have been!'  "Ah, well! for us all some sweet hope lies  Deeply buried from human eyes;  "And, in the hereafter, angels may  Roll the stone from its grave away!"Then Pintal paced briskly to and fro a few turns across the narrowfloor of his tent, and presently stopping, said,--his firstcheerfulness, with its unwonted smile, returning,--"But I must tell you why I should be happy today. I have a letter frommy brother Miguel, who is Secretary to the Legation at the Porte. Hehas leave of absence, and is happy with his dearest friends inFlorence. He shared my disgrace until lately, but bore it patiently;and now is reinstated in his office and his honors, a large portion ofhis property restored, which had been temporarily confiscated, whilehe was under suspicion as a Carlist. He is authorized to offer mepardon, and all these pretty things, if I will return and take a newoath of allegiance.""And you will accept, Pintal?""Why, in God's name, what do you take me for?--Pardon! I forgotmyself, Sir. Your question is a natural one. But no, I shall surelynot accept. Zea-Bermudez is dead, but there is a part of me which cannever die; and I am happy today because I feel that I am not so pooras I thought I was."Ferdy entered, alone. He went straight to his father and whisperedsomething in his ear,--about the mother, I suspected, for bothblushed, and Pintal said, with a vexed look,--"Ah, very well! nevermind that, my boy."Then Ferdy threw off his cap and cloak, and, seating himself on a pileof books at his father's feet, quietly rested his head upon his knee.I observed that his face was vividly flushed, and his eyes lookedweary. I felt his pulse,--it indicated high fever; and to our anxiousquestions he answered, that his head ached terribly, and he was "everyminute hot or cold." I persuaded him to go to bed at once, and leftanxious instructions for his treatment, for I saw that he was going tobe seriously ill.In three days little Ferdy was with the Lady Angelica in heaven. Hedied in my arms, of scarlet fever. In the delirium of his last momentshe saw _her_, and he departed with strange words on his lips: "I amcoming, Lady, I am coming!--my father will be ready presently!"Some strangers from the neighborhood helped me to bury him; we laidhim near the grave of the First Lady; but very soon his pretty boneswere scattered, and there's a busy street there now.Pintal, when I told him that the boy was dead, only bowed and smiled.He did not go to the grave, he never again named the child, nor by theleast word or look confessed the change. But when, a little later, afire swept down Dupont Street and laid the poor tent in ashes,spoiling the desolate house whose beautiful _lar_ had flitted,--whenhis wife went moaning maudlinly among the yet warm ashes, and groping,in mean misery, with a stick, for some charred nothing she would cheatthe Spoiler of, there was a dangerous quality in Pintal's look, as,with folded arms and vacant eyes, he seemed to stare upon, yet not tosee, the shocking scene. Presently the woman, poking with the stick,found something under the ashes. With her naked hands she greedilydug it out;--it was a tin shaving-case. Another moment, and Pintal hadsnatched it from her grasp, torn it open, and had a naked razor in hishand. I wrested it from him, as he fairly foamed, and dragged him fromthe place.A few days after that, I took leave of them on board a merchant shipbound for England, and with a heavy-hearted prayer sped them on theirway. On the voyage, as Pintal stood once, trembling in a storm, nearthe mainmast, a flash of lightning transfixed him.--That was well! Hehad been distinguished by his sorrows, and was worthy of that specialmessenger.       *       *       *       *       *That picture,--it was the first and last he painted in California. Ikept it long, rejoicing in the admiration it excited, and only grievedthat the poor comfort of the praises I daily heard lavished upon itcould never reach him.Once, when I was ill in Sacramento, my San Francisco house was burned,but not before its contents had been removed. In the hopelessscattering of furniture and trunks, this picture disappeared,--no oneknew whither. I sought it everywhere, and advertised for it, but invain. About a year afterward, I sailed for Honolulu. I had letters ofintroduction to some young American merchants there, one of whomhospitably made me his guest for several weeks. On the second day ofmy stay with him, he was showing me over his house, where, hangingagainst the wall in a spare room, I found,--not the Pintal picture,but a Chinese copy of it, faithful in its every detail. There were theseveral alterations I had suggested, and there the rich, warm colorsthat Pintal's taste had chosen. Of course, it was a copy. No doubt, mypicture had been stolen at the fire, or found its way by mistake amongthe "traps" of other people. Then it had been sold at auction,--someChinaman had bought it,--it had been shipped to Canton or HongKong,--some one of the thousand "artists" of China Street or theVictoria Road had copied it for the American market. A ship-load ofChinese goods--Canton crape shawls, camphor-boxes, carved toys,curiosities, and pictures--had been sold in Honolulu,--and here itwas.       *       *       *       *       *THE HOUSE THAT WAS JUST LIKE ITS NEIGHBORS.    Oh, the houses are all alike, you know,--    All the houses alike, in a row!  You'll see a hat-stand in the hall,  Against the painted and polished wall;  And the threaded sunbeams softly fall    On the long stairs, winding up, away    Up to the garret, lone and gray:  And you can hear, if you wait awhile,  Odd little noises to make you smile;  And minutes will be as long as a mile;--    Just as they would in the house below,    Were you in the entry waiting to go.    Oh, the houses are all alike, you know,--    All the houses alike, in a row!  And the world swings sadly to and fro,--  Mayhap the shining, but sure the woe!  For in the sunlight the shadows grow    Over the new name on the door,    Over the face unseen before.  Yet who shall number, by any art,  The chasms that keep so wide apart  The dancing step and the weary heart?    Oh, who shall guess that the polished wall    Is a headstone over his neighbor's hall?    Yet the houses are just alike, you know,--    All the houses alike, in a row!  And solemn sounds are heard at night,  And solemn forms shut out the light,  And hideous thoughts the soul affright:    Death and despair, in solemn state,    In the silent, vaulted chambers wait;  And up the stairs as your children go,  Spectres follow them, to and fro,--  Only a wall between them, oh!    And the darkest demons, grinning, see    The fairest angels that dwell with thee!    For the houses are all alike, you know,--    All the houses alike, in a row!  My chariot waited, gold and gay:  "I'll ride," I said, "to the woods to-day,--  Out to the blithesome woods away,--    Where the old trees, swaying thoughtfully,    Watch the breeze and the shadow's glee."  I smiled but once, with my joy elate,  For a chariot stood at my neighbor's gate,--  A grim old chariot, dark as fate.    "Oh, where are you taking my neighbor?" I cried.    And the gray old driver thus replied:--    "Where the houses are all alike, you know,--    Narrow houses, all in a row!  Unto a populous city," he saith:  "The road lies steep through the Vale of Death  Oh, it makes the old steeds gasp for breath!    There'll be a new name over the door,    In a place where _he's_ never been before,--  Where the neighbors never visit, they say,--  Where the streets are echoless, night and day,  And the children forget their childish play.    And if you should live next door, I doubt    If you'd ever hear what they were about  Who lived in the next house in the row,--  Though the houses are all alike, you know!"DAPHNAIDES:OR THE ENGLISH LAUREL, FROM CHAUCER TO TENNYSON.[Concluded.]Dorset was still Lord Chamberlain when the death of Shadwell placedthe laurel again at his disposal. Had he listened to Dryden, WilliamCongreve would have received it. Of all the throng of young gentlemenwho gathered about the chair of the old poet at Wills's, Congreve washis prime favorite. That his advice was not heeded was long a matterof pensive regret:--  "Oh that your brows my laurel had sustained!  Well had I been deposed, if you had reigned!  The father had descended for the son;  For only you are lineal to the throne.  Thus, when the state one Edward did depose,  A greater Edward in his room arose."[1]The choice fell upon Nahum Tate:--  "But now not I, but poetry is cursed;  For Tom the Second reigns like Tom the First."What particular quality recommended Tate we are not wholly able toexplain. Dryden alleges "charity" as the single impulse of theappointment,--not the merit or aptitude of the candidate. Butthroughout life Dorset continued to countenance Nahum, serving asstanding dedicatee of his works, and the prompter of several of them.We have remarked the want of judgment which Lord Dorset exhibited inhis anxious patronage of the scholars and scribblers of his time,--atrait which stood the Blackmores, Bradys, and Tates in good stead.But there was still another reason why Tate was preferred to Congreve.Dorset was too practised a courtier not to study the tastes of hismaster to good purpose. A liking for the stage, or a lively sense ofpoetic excellence, was not among the preferences of King William. TheLaureate was sub-purveyor of amusement for the court; but there was nolonger a court to amuse, and the King himself never once in his reignentered a theatre. The piety of Queen Mary rendered her a rareattendant at the play-house. Plays were therefore no longer wanted. Aplaywright could not amuse. Congreve was a dramatist who had neverexhibited even passable talent for other forms of poeticalcomposition. But Tate's limited gifts, displayed to Dorset'ssatisfaction in various encomiastic verses addressed to himself, werefully equal to the exigencies of the office under the new order ofthings; he was by profession a eulogist, not a dramatist. He was aTory; and the King was out of humor with the Whigs. He waspretentiously moral and exemplary of life and pen, and so suited theQueen. The duties of the office were conformed, as far as practicable,to the royal tastes. Their scene was transferred from the play-houseto the church. On the anniversaries of the birthdays of the twosovereigns, and upon New Year's day, the Laureate was expected to haveready congratulatory odes befitting the occasion, set to music by theroyal organist, and sung after service in the Chapel Royal of St.James. Similar duties were required when great victories were to becelebrated, or national calamities to be deplored. In short, fromwriting dramas to amuse a merry monarch and his courtiers, an officenot without dignity, the Laureate sunk into a hired writer ofadulatory odes; a change in which originated that prevalent contemptfor the laurel which descended from the era of Tate to that ofSouthey.And yet the odes were in no sense more thoroughly Pindaric than in thecircumstance of their flatteries being bought and paid for at a statedmarket value. The triumphal lyrics of Pindar himself were very farfrom being those spontaneous and enthusiastic tributes to the prowessof his heroes, which the vulgar receive them for. Hear the painfultruth, as revealed by the Scholiast.[2] Pytheas of AEgina hadconquered in rough-and-tumble fight all antagonists in the Pancratium.Casting about for the best means of perpetuating his fame, he foundthe alternative to lie between a statuette to be erected in the templeof the hero-god, or one of the odes of the learned Theban. Choosingthe latter, he proceeded to the poet's shop, cheapened the article,and would have secured it without hesitation, had not the extortionatebard demanded the sum of three drachmas,[3] nearly equal to half adollar, for the poem, and refused to bate a fraction. The disappointedbargainer left, and was for some days decided in favor of the brazenimage, which could be had at half the price. But reflecting that whatPindar would give for his money was a draft upon universal fame andimmortality, while the statue might presently be lost, or melted down,or its identity destroyed, his final determination was in favor of theode,--a conclusion which time has justified. Nor was the Bard of theVictors ashamed of his mercenary Muse. In the Second Isthmian Ode, wefind an elaborate justification of his practice of praising forpay,--a practice, he admits, unknown to primitive poets, but renderedinevitable, in his time, by the poverty of the craft, and thedegeneracy of the many, with whom, in the language of the Spartansage, "money made the man." With this Pindaric precedent, therefore,for selling Pindaric verses, it is no wonder, if the children of theMuse, in an age still more degenerate than that of their greatoriginal, found ample excuse for dealing out their wares at the bestmarket. When such as Dryden and Pope lavished in preface anddedication their encomiums upon wealth and power, and waited eagerlyfor the golden guineas the bait might bring them, we have no right tocomplain of the Tates and Eusdens for prostituting their neglectedMuses for a splendid sum certain _per annum_. Surely, if royalty, thusperiodically and mercenarily eulogized, were content, the poet mightwell be so. And quite as certainly, the Laureate stipend neverextracted from poet panegyric more fulsome, ill-placed, and degrading,than that which Laureate Dryden volunteered over the pall of CharlesII.[4]Tate had been known as a hanger-on at the court of Charles, and as afeeble versifier and pamphleteer of the Tory school, before analliance with Dryden gave him a certain degree of importance. Thefirst part of "Absalom and Achitophel," in 1681, convulsed the townand angered the city. Men talked for a time of nothing else. Tate, whowas in the secret of its authorship, talked of it to Dryden, and urgedan extension of the poem. Were there not enough of Shaftesbury's briskboys running at large who deserved to be gibbeted? Were there notenough Hebrew names in the two books of Samuel to name each asappropriately as those already nomenclatured? But Dryden wasindisposed to undertake a continuation which must fall short of whathad been executed in the exact proportion that the characters left forit were of minor consequence. He recommended the task to Tate. Tate,flattered and nothing loath, accordingly sent to the press the secondpart of "Absalom and Achitophel," embodying a contribution from Drydenof two hundred lines, which are as plainly distinguishable from therest as a patch of cloth of gold upon cloth of frieze. The credit ofthis first alliance proved so grateful to Nahum, that he never afterventured upon literary enterprise without the aid of a similarcoalition. His genius was inherently parasitic. In conjunction withTory and Jesuit, he coalesced in the celebration of Castlemaine'sgaudy reception at Rome.In conjunction with Nicholas Brady, he prepared that version of thePsalms still appended to the English Book of Common Prayer. Inconjunction with Dryden and others, he translated Juvenal. Inconjunction with Lord Dorset, he edited a praiseworthy edition of thepoems of Sir John Davies, which might otherwise have been lost orforgotten. In conjunction with Garth, he translated the"Metamorphoses" of Ovid. And in conjunction with Dr. Blow, he preparedthose Pindaric flights which set King William asleep, and madeGodolphin ashamed that the deeds of Marlborough should be sounworthily sung.So long as he continued to enjoy the patronage of his liberalMaecenas, Tate, with his aid, and these labors, and the income of hisoffice, contrived to maintain the state of a gentleman. But Dorsetdied in 1706; the Laureate's dull heroics found no vent; and ere thedeath of Queen Anne,--an event which he bewailed in the leastcontemptible of his odes,--his revenues were contracted to theofficial stipend. The accession of the house of Hanover, in 1714, wasthe downfall of Toryism; and Tate was a Tory. His ruin was complete.The Elector spared not the house of Pindar. The Laureate was strippedof the wreath; his only income confiscated; and after strugglingfeebly with fate in the form of implacable creditors, he took refugein the Old Mint, the resort of thieves and debtors, where in 1715 hedied,--it is said, of starvation. Alas, that the common lot of GrubStreet should have precedent in the person of laurelled royaltyitself!The coronation of Laureate Rowe was simultaneous with that of GeorgeI. His immediate claim to the honor dated back to the year 1702, whenhis play of "Tamerlane" had caught the popular fancy, and proved ofvast service to the ministry at a critical moment in stimulating thenational antipathy to France. The effect was certainly not due toartistic nicety or refinement. King William, as _Tamerlane_, wasinvested with all virtues conceivable of a Tartar conqueror, unitedwith the graces of a primitive saint; while King Louis, as _Bajazet_,fell little short of the perfections of Satan. These coarse daubs,executed in the broadest style of the sign-post school of Art, sogratified the mob, that for half a century their exhibition was calledfor on the night of November the fifth. Rowe, moreover, belonged tothe straitest sect of Whiggery,--was so bigoted, indeed, as to declinethe acquaintance of a Tory, and in play and prologue missed no chanceof testifying devotion to liberal opinions.[5] His investiture withthe laurel was only another proof that at moments of revolutionextremists first rise to the surface. A man of affluent fortune, andthe recipient of redundant favors from the new ministry, Rowe enjoyedthe sunshine of life, while the dethroned Nahum starved in the Mint,as the dethroned James starved at Rome. Had the dramatic tribute stillbeen exacted, there is little doubt that the author of the "FairPenitent," and of "Jane Shore," would have lent splendid lustre to hisoffice. His odes, however,--such, at least, as have been thoughtworthy of preservation among his works,--are a prodigious improvementupon the tenuity of his predecessor, and immeasurably superior inpoetical fire and elegance to those of any successor antecedent toWarton.For, following Nicholas Rowe, there were dark ages of Laureatedulness,--a period redeemed by nothing, unless by the ridicule andcontroversy to which the wearers of the leaf gave occasion. Rowe diedin the last days of 1718. The contest for the vacant place is presumedto have been unusually active. John Sheffield, Duke of Buckinghamshire,imitating Suckling's "Session of the Poets," brings all theversifiers of the time into the canvas, and after humorouslydispatching one after another, not sparing himself, closes,--  "At last, in rushed Eusden, and cried, 'Who shall have it,  But I, the true Laureate, to whom the King gave it?'  Apollo begged pardon, and granted his claim,  But vowed, though, till then, he ne'er heard of his name."[6]This Laurence Eusden was a scribbling parson, whose model in Art wasSir Richard Blackmore, and whose morality was of the Puritanicalstripe. He had assisted Garth in his Ovid, assuming, doubtless uponhigh moral grounds, the rendering of the impurest fables. He hadwritten odes to great people upon occasions more or less great,therein exhibiting some ingenuity in varying the ordinary staple ofadulation. He had addressed an epithalamium to the Duke of Newcastleupon his marriage with the Lady Henrietta Godolphin,--a tribute sogratifying to his Grace, then Lord Chamberlain, as to secure the poetthe place of Rowe. Eusden's was doubtless the least honorable name asyet associated with the laurel. His contemporaries allude to him withuniform disdain. Cooke, the translator of Hesiod, tells us,--  "Eusden, a laurelled bard, by fortune raised,  By very few was read, by fewer praised,"Pope, as cavalierly, in the "Dunciad":--  "She saw old Prynne in restless Daniel shine,  And Eusden eke out Blackmore's endless line."Jacobs, in his "Lives of the Poets," speaks of him as a multifariouswriter of unreadable trash,--and names but few of his productions. Thetruth was, Eusden, secluding himself at his rectory among the fens ofLincolnshire, took no part in society, declined all association withthe polite circles of the metropolis, thus inviting attacks, fromwhich his talents were not respectable enough to screen him. That theloftiest revelations of poetry were not required of the Laureate ofGeorge I., who understood little or no English, there can be noquestion. George II. was equally insensible to the Muses; and had theannual lyrics been a mosaic of the merest gibberish, they would havesatisfied his earlier tastes as thoroughly as the odes of Collins orGray. A court, at which Pope and Swift, Young and Thomson werestrangers, had precisely that share of Augustan splendor which enabledsuch as Eusden to shine lustrously.[7]And so Eusden shone and wrote, and in the fulness of time--September,1730--died and was buried; and his laurel others desired.[8] Theleading claimants were Richard Savage and Colley Cibber. The touchingstory of Savage had won the heart of the Queen, and she had extractedfrom the King the promise of the Laureateship for its hero. But in theMinister, Sir Robert Walpole, Savage had an irreconcilable opponent.The apprehension of exciting powerful enmities, if he elevated the"Bastard" and his wrongs to so conspicuous a place, had, no doubt, aninfluence with the shrewd statesman. Possibly, too, so keen andpractical a mind could not but entertain thorough contempt for theman, who, with brains, thews, and sinews of his own, a fair education,and as many golden opportunities of advancement as a reasonable beingcould desire, should waste his days in profitless mendicancy at thedoors of great people, in whining endeavors to excite the sympathiesof the indifferent, in poem and petition, in beastly drunkenness, or,if sober, in maudlin lamentations at the bitterness of his fortune. AFalconbridge would have better suited the ministerial taste. At allevents, when his Majesty came to request the appointment of theQueen's _protege_, he found that the patent had already been made outin the name of Cibber: and Cibber had to be Laureate. The disappointedone raved, got drunk, sober again, and finally wrote an ode to herMajesty, announcing himself as her "Volunteer Laureate," who shouldrepeat his congratulations upon each recurrence of her birthday. TheQueen, in pity, sent him fifty pounds, with a promise of an equalamount for each of his annual verses. And although Cibber protested,and ridiculed the new title, as no more sensible than "Volunteer Duke,Marquis, or Prime Minister," still Savage adhered to it and thepension tenaciously, sharing the Queen's favor with Stephen Duck, themarvellous "Thresher,"[9] whose effusions were still more to hertaste. That the yearly fifty pounds were expended in inexcusable riot,almost as soon as received, was a matter of course. Upon the demise ofQueen Caroline, in 1738, Savage experienced another proof of Walpole'sdislike. The pensions found upon her Majesty's private list were allcontinued out of the exchequer, one excepted. The pension of Savagewas the exception. Right feelingly, therefore, might he mourn hisroyal mistress, and vituperate the insensible minister; and that hedid both with some degree of animation, the few who still read hispoems will freely admit.Colley Cibber had recommended himself to promotion by consistentpartisanship, and by two plays of fair merit and exceeding popularity."The Careless Husband" even Pope had praised; "The Nonjuror," anadaptation of Moliere's "Tartuffe," was one of the most successfulcomedies of the period. The King had been delighted with it,--acircumstance doubtless considered by Sir Robert in selecting a rivalfor Savage. Cibber had likewise been the manager, time out of mind, ofDrury-Lane Theatre; and if now and then he had failed to recognize theexact direction of popular taste,--as in the instance of the "Beggar'sOpera," which he rejected, and which, being accepted by Manager Richof Covent Garden, made Rich gay and Gay rich,--he was generally asound stage-tactician and judicious caterer. His career, however, hadnot been so profitable that an additional hundred pounds should be athing of indifference; in fact, the sum seemed to be just what wasneeded to enable him to forsake active duty on the stage,--for thepatent was no sooner signed than the veteran retired upon his laurels.The annals of the Laureateship, during Cibber's reign, are withoutincident.[10] The duties remained unchanged, and were performed, thereis no reason to doubt, to the contentment of the King and court.[11]But the Laureate himself was peculiarly the object of sarcasticsatire. The standing causes were of course in operation: the envy ofrival poetasters, the dislike of political opponents, the enmitiesoriginating in professional disputes and jealousies. Cibber's mannershad not been studied in the school of Chesterfield, although thatschool was then open and flourishing. He was rude, presumptuous,dogmatic. To superiors in rank he was grudgingly respectful; to equalsand inferiors, insupportably insolent. But when to these aggravatingtraits he added the vanity of printing an autobiography, exposing athousand assailable points in his life and character, the temptationwas irresistible, and the whole population of Grub Street enlisted ina crusade against him.[12] Fortunately, beneath the crust of insolenceand vanity, there was a substratum of genuine power in the Laureate'smake, which rendered him not only a match for these, but for even agreater than these, the author of the "Dunciad." Pope's antipathy forthe truculent actor dated some distance back.  Back to the 'Devil,' the last echoes roll,  And 'Coll!' each butcher roars at Hockley-hole.The latter accounts for it by telling, that at the firstrepresentation of Gay's "Three Hours after Marriage," in 1717, whereone of the scenes was violently hissed, some angry words passedbetween the irritated manager and Pope, who was behind the scenes, andwas erroneously supposed to have aided in the authorship. The odds ofa scolding match must have been all in favor of the blustering Cibber,rather than of the nervous and timid Pope; but then the latter had afaculty of hate, which his antagonist had not, and he exercised itvigorously. The allusions to Cibber in his later poems are frequent.Thus, in the "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot":--  "And has not Colley still his Lord and whore?  His butchers Henley? his freemasons Moore?"And again:--  "So humble he has knocked at Tibbald's door,  Has drunk with Colley, nay, has rhymed for Moore."And in the "Imitation of Horace," addressed to Lord Fortescue:--  "Better be Cibber, I maintain it still,  Than ridicule all taste, blaspheme, quadrille.""The Dunciad," as originally published in 1728, had Lewis Theobald forits hero. There was neither sense nor justice in the selection. Popehated Theobald for presuming to edit the plays of Shakspeare withgreatly more ability and acuteness than himself had brought to thetask. His dislike had no better foundation. Neither the works, thecharacter, nor the associations of the man authorized his elevation tothe throne of dulness. The disproportion between the subject and thesatire instantly impresses the reader. After the first explosion ofhis malice, it impressed Pope; and anxious to redeem his error, hesought diligently for some plan of dethroning Tibbald, and raisinganother to the vacant seat. Cibber, in the mean time, was elevated tothe laurel, and that by statesmen whom it was the fate of Pope todetest in secret, and yet not dare to attack in print. The Fourth Bookof the "Dunciad" appeared in 1742, and its attacks were mainlylevelled at the Laureate. The Laureate replied in a pamphlet,deprecating the poet's injustice, and declaring his unconsciousness ofany provocation for these reiterated assaults. At the same time heannounced his determination to carry on the war in prose as long asthe satirist should wage it in verse,--pamphlet for poem, worldwithout end. Hostilities were now fairly established. Pope issued afresh edition of his satire complete. The change he had long covetedhe now made. The name of Cibber was substituted throughout for that ofTheobald, the portraiture remaining the same. Johnson properlyridicules the absurdity of leaving the heavy traits of Theobald on thecanvas, and simply affixing the name of his mercurial contemporarybeneath; and, indeed, there is much reason to doubt whether the meanjealousy which inspired the first "Dunciad," or the blundering ragewhich disfigured the second, is in the worse taste. Cibber kept hisengagement, replying in pamphlet. The immediate victory wasunquestionably his. Morbidly sensitive to ridicule, Pope sufferedacutely. Richardson, who found him once with the Cibberine leaves inhis hand, declared his persuasion, from the spectacle of rage,vexation, and mortification he witnessed, that the poet's deathresulted from the strokes of the Laureate. If so, we must concede himto have been the victor who laid his adversary at his feet on thefield. Posterity, however, which listens only to the satirist, hasjudged differently and unjustly.[13] Theobald, though of no originaltalent, was certainly, in his generation, the most successfulillustrator of Shakspeare, and the first, though Rowe and Pope hadpreceded him in the effort, who had brought a sound verbal criticismto bear on the text. It is to his credit, that many of the mostingenious emendations suggested in Mr. Collier's famous folio wereanticipated by this "king of the dunces"; and it must be owned, thathis edition is as far superior to Warburton's and Hanmer's, which werenot long after brought out with a deafening flourish of trumpets, asthe editions of Steevens and Malone are to his. Yet, prompted by the"Dunciad," it is the fashion of literature to regard Theobald withcompassion, as a block-head and empiric. Cibber escapes but littlebetter, and yet he was a man of respectable talent, and played nosecond-rate part in the literary history of the time.As Laureate Cibber drew near the end of earthly things, a desire,common to poetical as well as political potentates, possessed him,--adesire to nominate a successor. In his case, indeed, the idea may havebeen borrowed from "MacFlecknoe" or the "Dunciad." The Earl ofChesterfield, during his administration in Ireland, had discovered arival to Ben Jonson in the person of a poetical bricklayer, one HenryJones, whom his Lordship carried with him to London, as a specimen ofthe indigenous tribes of Erin. It was easier for this Jones to rhymein heroics than to handle a trowel or construct a chimney. He rhymed,therefore, for the amusement and in honor of the polite circle ofwhich Stanhope was the centre; the fashionable world subscribedmagnificently for his volume of "Poems upon Several Occasions";[14]his tragedy, "The Earl of Essex," in the composition of which hispatron is said to have shared, was universally applauded. Itsintroduction to the stage was the work of Cibber; and Cibber, assistedby Chesterfield, labored zealously to secure the author a reversion ofthe laurel upon his own lamented demise.The effort was unsuccessful. Cibber's death occurred in December,1757. The administration of the elder Pitt, which had been restoredsix months before, was insensible to the merits of the prodigiousbricklayer. The wreath was tendered to Thomas Gray. It would, nodoubt, have proved a grateful relief to royalty, obliged fortwenty-seven years to listen twice yearly, if not oftener, to themonotonous felicitations of Colley, to hear in his stead the author ofthe "Bard," of the "Progress of Poetry," of the "Ode at Eton College."But the relief was denied it. Gray, ambitious only of the historicalchair at Cambridge, declined the laurel. In the mean time, the claimsof William Whitehead were earnestly advocated with the LordChamberlain, by Lord and Lady Jersey, and by the Earl Harcourt. Alarge vote in the House of Commons might be affected by a refusal.Pitt, who cared nothing for the laurel, but much for the votes, gavehis assent, and Whitehead was appointed. Whitehead was the son of abaker, and, as an eleemosynary scholar at Winchester School, had won apoetical prize offered to the students by Alexander Pope. Obtaining afree scholarship at Cambridge, he became in due time a fellow of ClareHall, and subsequently tutor to the sons of Lord Jersey and LordHarcourt, with whom he made the tour of the Continent. Two of histragedies, "The Roman Father," and "Creuesa," met with more successthan they deserved. A volume of poems, not without merit, was given tothe press in 1756, and met with unusual favor through the exertions ofhis two noble friends. That he was not a personal applicant for thelaurel, nor conscious of the movement in his behalf, he takes occasionin one of his poems to state:--  "Howe'er unworthily I wear the crown,  unasked it came, and from a hand unknown."[15]From the warm championship of his friends, and the commendations ofMason, the friend of Gray, we infer that Whitehead was not destituteof fine social qualities. His verse, which is of the only type currenta century ago, is elegantly smooth, and wearisomely tame,--nowhererising into striking or original beauties. Among his merits as a poetmodesty was not. His "Charge to the Poets," published in 1762, drewupon him the wrath and ridicule of his fellow-verse-wrights, andperhaps deservedly. Assuming, with amusing vanity, what, if ever true,was only so a century before or a half-century after, that the laurelwas the emblem of supremacy in the realm of letters, and that it hadbeen granted him as a token of his matchless merit,--  "Since my king and patron have thought fit  To place me on the throne of modern wit,--"he proceeds to read the subject throng a saucy lecture on their vicesand follies,--  "As bishops to their clergy give their charge."A good-natured dogmatism is the tone of the whole; but presumption anddogmatism find no charity among the _genus irritabile_, and Whiteheadreceived no quarter. Small wits and great levelled their strokes at ahide which self-conceit had happily rendered proof. The sturdiestassailant was Charles Churchill. He never spares him,--    "Who in the Laureate chair--  By grace, not merit, planted there--  In awkward pomp is seen to sit,  And by his patent proves his wit;  For favors of the great, we know,  Can wit as well as rank bestow;  And they who, without one pretension,  Can get for fools a place or pension,  Must able be supposed, of course,  If reason is allowed due force,  To give such qualities and grace  As may equip them for the place.    "But he who measures as he goes  A mongrel kind of tinkling prose,  And is too frugal to dispense  At once both poetry and sense,--  Who, from amidst his slumbering guards,  Deals out a charge to subject bards,  Where couplets after couplets creep,  Propitious to the reign of sleep," etc.Again, in the "Prophecy of Famine,"--  "A form, by silken smile, and tone  Dull and unvaried, for the Laureate known,  Folly's chief friend, Decorum's eldest son,  In every party found, and yet of none,  This airy substance, this substantial shade."And elsewhere he begs for        "Some such draught...  As makes a Whitehead's ode go down,  Or slakes the feverette of Brown."But satire disturbed not the calm equanimity of the pensioner andplaceman.         "The laurel worn  By poets in old time, but destined now  In grief to wither on a Whitehead's brow,"continued to fade there, until a whole generation of poets had passedaway. It was not until the middle of April, 1785, that Death made wayfor a successor.The suddenness of Whitehead's decease came near leaving a royalbirthday unsung,--an omission scarcely pardonable with one of Georgethe Third's methodical habits. An impromptu appointment had to bemade. It was made before the Laureate was buried. Thomas Warton, theProfessor of Poetry at Oxford, received the patent on the 30th ofApril, and his ode, married to fitting music, was duly forthcoming onthe 24th of May. The selection of Warton was faultless. His lyricalverse was the best of a vicious school; his sonnets, according to thatexquisite sonneteer, Sir Egerton Brydges, were the finest in thelanguage; his "History of English Poetry," of which three volumes hadappeared, displayed an intimate acquaintance with the early Englishwriters. Nor should we pass unnoticed his criticisms and annotationsupon Milton and Spenser, manifesting as they did the acutestsensitiveness to the finest beauties of poetry. If the laurel impliedthe premiership of living poets, Warton certainly deserved it. He wasa head and shoulders taller than his actual contemporaries.[16] Hestood in the gap between the old school and the new, between the deadand the coming. Goldsmith and Johnson were no more; Cowper did notprint his "Task" until the autumn of 1785; Burns made his _debut_about the same moment; Rogers published his "Ode to Superstition" thenext year; the famous "Fourteen Sonnets" of Bowles came two yearslater; while Wordsworth and Landor made their first appearance in1793. Fortunate thus in time, Warton was equally fortunate inpolitics. He was an Oxford Tory, a firm believer in divine right andpassive obedience, and a warm supporter of the new ministers. To theKing, it may be added, no nomination could have given greatersatisfaction. The official odes of Warton evince all the eleganttraits which characterize his other writings. Their refined taste andexquisite modulation are admirable; while the matter is far lesssycophantic than was to be expected from so devout a monarchist. Thetender of the laurel certainly gratified him:--  "Yet still one joy remains, that not obscure  Nor useless all my vacant days have flowed,  From youth's gay dawn to manhood's prime mature,  Nor with the Muse's laurel unbestowed."[17]And, like Southey, he was not indisposed to enhance the dignity of thewreath by classing Chaucer and Spenser, as we have seen, among itswearers. The genuine claims of Warton to respect probably saved himfrom the customary attacks. Bating a few bungling thrusts amid thedoggerel of "Peter Pindar," he escaped scathless,--gaining, on theother hand, a far more than ordinary proportion of poetical panegyric.  "Affection and applause alike he shared;  All loved the man, all venerate the bard:  E'en Prejudice his fate afflicted hears,  And lettered Envy sheds reluctant tears.  Such worth the laurel could alone repay,  Profaned by Cibber, and contemned by Gray;  Yet hence its Breath shall new distinction claim,  And, though it gave not, take from Warton fame."[18]The last of Warton's odes was written in his last illness, andperformed three days after his death. Appositely enough, it was aninvocation to Health, meriting more than ordinary praise for eloquentfervor. Warton died May 21st, 1790. The laurel was vacant for a month,when Henry James Pye was gazetted. There was hardly a hungry placemanin London who had not as just pretensions to the honor. What poeticalgifts he had displayed had been in school or college exercises. Hisreal claims consisted in having spent a fortune in electioneering forministers; and these claims being pressed with unusual urgency at themoment of Warton's death, he was offered the Laureateship assatisfaction in part.[19] He eagerly accepted it, and received thebalance two years later in the shape of a commission as PoliceMagistrate of Middlesex. Thereafter, like Henry Fielding, or GilbertA'Beckett, he divided his days between penal law and politeliterature. His version of the "Poetics" of Aristotle, withillustrations drawn liberally from recent authors, was perhapsbegotten of a natural wish to satisfy the public that qualificationsfor the laurel were not wholly wanting. A barren devotion to the dramawas always his foible. It was freely indulged. With few exceptions,his plays were affairs of partnership with Samuel James Arnold, awriter of ephemeral popularity, whose tale of "The Haunted Island" waswildly admired by readers of the intensely romantic school, but whosetragedies, melodramas, comedies, farces, operas, are now forgotten. Inaddition to these auxiliary labors, which ripened yearly, Pye triedhis hand at an epic,--the subject, King Alfred,--the plot andtreatment not greatly differing from those which Blackmore brought tothe same enterprise. The poem passed at once from the bookshop to thetrunk-maker,--not, however, before an American publisher was founddaring enough to reprint it. There are also to be mentionedtranslations from Pindar, Horace, and other classics, for Sharpe'sedition of the British Poets, a collection to which he lent editorialaid. "Poet Pye"[20] was fortunate in escaping contemporary wit andsatire. Gifford alluded to him, but Gifford's Toryism was securitythat no Tory Court-Poet would be roughly handled. Byron passed him insilence. The Smiths treated him as respectfully as they treatedanybody. Moore's wit at the expense of the Regent and his courtiershad only found vent in the "Two-Penny Post-Bag" when Pye was gatheredto his predecessors.That calamity occurred in August, 1813. With it ended the era ofbirthday songs and New-Year's verses. The King was mad; his nativitywas therefore hardly a rational topic of rejoicing. The Prince Regenthad no taste for the solemn inanity of stipulated ode, the performanceof which only served to render insufferably tedious the services ofthe two occasions in the year when imperative custom demanded hisattendance at the Chapel. Consultation was had with John WilsonCroker, Secretary of the Admiralty. Croker's sharp common-sense atonce suggested the abolition of the Laureate duties, but the retentionof the office as a sinecure. Walter Scott, to whom the place wasoffered, as the most popular of living poets, seconded the counsel ofCroker, but declined the appointment, as beneath the dignity of theintended founder of a long line of border knights. He recommendedSouthey. He had already recommended Southey to the "Quarterly," andthrough the "Quarterly" to Croker, then and still its most brilliantcontributor; and this second instance of disinterested kindness wasequally efficacious. Southey was appointed. The tierce of Canaryceased to be a perquisite of the office, the Laureate disclaiming it;and instead of annual odes upon set occasions, such effusions as thepoet might choose to offer at the suggestion of passing events were tobe accepted as the sum of official duty. These were to be said orread, not sung,--a change that completed the radical revolution of theoffice.However important the salary of a hundred pounds may have been toSouthey, it is very sure that the laurel seemed to infuse all itsnoxious and poisonous juices into his literary character. His vanity,like Whitehead's, led him to regard his chaplet as the reward ofunrivalled merit. His study-chair was glorified, and became a throne.His supremacy in poetry was as indubitable as the king's supremacy inmatters ecclesiastical. He felt himself constrained to eliminateutterly from his conscience whatever traces of early republicanism,pantisocracy, and heresy still disfigured it; and to conformunreservedly to the exactest requirements of high Toryism in politicsand high Churchism in religion. He was in the pay and formed a part ofthe government; could he do else than toil mightily in his departmentfor the service of a master who had so sagaciously anticipated theverdict of posterity, as to declare him, who was the least popular,the greatest of living poets? He found it a duty to assume a rigidcensorship over as many of his Majesty's lieges as were addicted toverse,--to enact the functions of minister of literary police,--toreprehend the levity of Moore, the impiety of Byron, the democracy ofLeigh Hunt, the unhappy lapse of Hazlitt, the drunkenness of Lamb.Assumptions so open to ridicule, and so disparaging to far abler men,told as disadvantageously upon his fame as upon his character. Hebecame the butt of contemporary satire. Horace Smith, Moore, Shelley,Byron, lampooned him savagely. The latter made him the hero of hiswicked "Vision of Judgment," and to him dedicated his "Don Juan." Thededication was suppressed; but no chance offered in the body of thatprofligate rhapsody to assail Bob Southey, that was not vigorouslyemployed. The self-content of the Laureate armed him, however, againstevery thrust. Contempt he interpreted as envy of his sublimeelevation:--  "Grin, Envy, through thy ragged mask of scorn!  In honor it was given; with honor it is worn."Of course such matchless self-complacency defied assault.Southey's congratulatory odes appeared as often as public occasionseemed to demand them. There were in rapid succession the "Ode to theRegent," the "Carmen Triumphale," the "Pilgrimage to Waterloo," the"Vision of Judgment," the "Carmen Nuptiale," the "Ode on the Death ofthe Princess Charlotte." The "Quarterly" exalted them, one and all;the "Edinburgh" poured upon them volleys of keen but ineffectualridicule. At last the Laureate desisted. The odes no longer appeared;and during the long and dark closing years of his life, the onlyproduction of the Laureate pen was the yearly signature to a receiptfor one hundred pounds sterling, official salary.Robert Southey died in March, 1843. Sir Robert Peel, who had obligedWordsworth the year before, by transferring the post in the excise,which he had so long held, to the poet's son, and substituting apension for its salary, testified further his respect for the Bard ofRydal by tendering him the laurel. It was not to be refused. Had theoffice been hampered with any demands upon the occupant for popularlyric, in celebration of notable events, Wordsworth was certainly thelast man to place in it. His frigid nature was incapable of thatprompt enthusiasm, without which, poetry, especially poetry responsiveto some strong emotion momentarily agitating the popular heart, islifeless and worthless. Fortunately, there were no such exactions. Theoffice had risen from its once low estate to be a dignified sinecure.As such, Wordsworth filled it; and, dying, left it without onepoetical evidence of having worn the wreath.To him, in May, 1850, succeeded, who, as the most acceptable poet ofthe day, could alone rightly succeed, Alfred Tennyson, the actualPoet-Laureate. Not without opposition. There were those who endeavoredto extinguish the office, and hang up the laurel forever,--and to thatend brought pregnant argument to bear upon government. "The Times" wasmore than usually decided in favor of the policy of extinguishment.Give the salary, it was urged, as a pension to some deserving writerof verse, whose necessities are exacting; but abolish a title degradedby association with names and uses so unworthy, as to confer shame,not honor, on the wearer. The laurel is presumed to be granted to theablest living English poet. What vocation have the Tite Barnacles,red-tapists, vote-mongers, of Downing Street to discriminate anddetermine this supreme poetical excellence, in regard to which thenicest critics, or the most refined and appreciative reading publicmay reasonably differ among themselves as widely as the stars? On theother hand, it was argued, that the laurel had, from its last twowearers, recovered its lost dignity. They had lent it honor, which itcould not fail to confer upon any survivor, however great his name.If, then, the old odium had disappeared, why not retain the place forthe sake of the ancient worthies whom tradition had handed down as atone time or another connected with it? There was rarely difficulty inselecting from among contemporary poets one of preeminent talent,whose elevation to the laurel would offend none of his fellows. Therewas certainly no difficulty in the present case. There was palpableevidence that Tennyson was by all admission the hierophant of hisorder; and it would be time enough to dispense with the title when afuture occasion should be at a loss to decide among contendingcandidates. The latter reasoning prevailed. Tennyson accepted thelaurel, and with it a self-imposed obligation to make occasionalacknowledgments for the gift.The first opportunity presented itself in the issue of a fresh editionof his poems, in 1851. To these he prefixed some noble verses,dedicating the volumes to the Queen, and referring with as muchdelicacy as modesty to his place and his predecessor:--  "Victoria,--since your royal grace  To one of less desert allows  This laurel, greener from the brows  Of him that uttered nothing base."--The next occasion was of a different order. The hero of Waterloo endedhis long life in 1852, and a nation was in mourning. Then, if ever,poets, whether laurelled or leafless, were called to give eloquentutterance to the popular grief; and Tennyson, of all the poets, waslooked to for its highest expression. The Threnode of the Laureate wasduly forthcoming. The public was, as it had no right to be,disappointed. Tennyson's Muse was ever a wild and wilful creature,defiant of rules, and daringly insubordinate to arbitrary forms. Itcould not, with the witling in the play, cap verses with any man. Themoment its tasks were dictated and the form prescribed, that momentthere was ground to expect the self-willed jade to play a jade'strick, and leave us with no decent results of inspiration. For odesand sonnets, and other such Procrustean moulds into which poeticthought is at times cast, Tennyson had neither gift nor liking. When,therefore, with the Duke's death, came a sudden demand upon his Muse,and that in shape so solemn as to forbid, as the poet conceived, anyfanciful license of invention, the Pindaric form seemed inevitable;and that form rendered a fair exhibition of the poet's peculiar geniusout of the question. Strapped up in prescription, and impelled to moveby official impulse, his Pegasus was as awkward as a cart-horse. Andyet men did him the justice to say that his failure out-topped thesuccess of others.Far better--indeed, with the animating thrill of the war-trumpet--was"The Charge of the Light Brigade," and simply because the topicadmitted of whatever novelty of treatment the bias of the bard mightdevise. This is the Laureate's most successful attempt at strictlypopular composition. It proves him to possess the stuff of a Tyrtaeusor a Koerner,--something vastly more stirring and stimulating than theusual staple of  "The dry-tongued laurel's pattering talk."[21]Howbeit, late may he have call for another war-song!With the name of Tennyson we reach the term of our Laureate calendar.Long ages and much perilously dry research must he traverse who shallenlarge these outlines to the worthier proportions of history. Yetwill the labor not be wholly barren. It will bring him in contact withall the famous of letters and poetry; he will fight over againnumberless quarrels of authors; he will soar in boundless Pindaricflights, or sink, sooth to say, in unfathomed deeps of bathos. Withone moral he will be profoundly impressed: Of all the more splendidresults of genius which adorn our language and literature,--for theliterature of the English language is ours,--not one owes itsexistence to the laurel; not one can be directly or indirectly tracedto royal encouragement, or the stimulus of salary or stipend. Thelaurel, though ever green, and throwing out blossoms now and then ofnotable promise, has borne no fruit. We might strike from the languageall that is ascribable solely to the honor and emolument of thisoffice, without inflicting a serious loss upon letters. The masques ofJonson would be regretted; a few lines of Tennyson would be missed.For the rest, we might readily console ourselves. It may certainly beurged, that the laurel was designed rather as a reward than as aprovocative of merit; but the allegation has become true only withinthe last half-century. Antecedently to Southey, it was theconsideration for which return in poetry was demanded,--in the firstinstance, a return in dramatic poetry, and then in the formal lyric.It was put forth as the stimulus to works good in their several kinds,and it may be justly complained of for never having provoked any goodworks. To represent it as a reward commensurate with the merits ofWordsworth and Tennyson, or even of Southey, is to rate threefirst-class names in modern poetry on a level with the names of thosethird-rate "poetillos" who, during the eighteenth century, obtainedthe same reward for two intolerable effusions yearly. Upon the whole,therefore, we incline to the opinion that the laurel can no longerconfer honor or profit upon literature. Sack is palatable, and ahundred pounds are eminently useful; but the arbitrary judgments ofqueens and courtiers upon poetical issues are neither useful norpalatable. The world may, in fact, contrive to content itself, shouldKing Alfred prove the last of the Laureates.[Footnote 1: Schol. Vet. ad _Nem. Od._ 5.][Footnote 2: Commentators agree, we believe, that there was an erroras to the sum. But we tell the story as we find it.][Footnote 3: DRYDEN, _Epistle to Wm. Congreve_, 1693.][Footnote 4: The _Threnodia Augustalis_, 1685, where the eulogy isequitably distributed between the dead Charles and the living James.][Footnote 5: Dr. Johnson tells the story of Rowe having applied toLord Oxford for promotion, and being asked whether he understoodSpanish. Elated with the prospect of an embassy to Madrid, Rowehurried home, shut himself up, and for months devoted himself to thestudy of a language the possession of which was to make his fortune.At length, he reappeared at the Minister's _levee_ and announcedhimself a Spanish scholar. "Then," said Lord Oxford, shaking his handcordially, "let me congratulate you on your ability to enjoy _DonQuixote_, in the original." Johnson seems to throw doubt on the story,because Rowe would not even speak to a Tory, and certainly would notapply to a Tory minister for advancement. But Oxford was once a Whig,and was in office as such; and it was probably at that period theincident occurred.][Footnote 6: Battle of the Poets, 1725.][Footnote 7:  "Harmonious Cibber entertains  The court with annual birthday strains,  Whence Gay was banished in disgrace,  Where Pope will never show his face,  Where Young must torture his invention  To flatter knaves, or lose his pension."                                   SWIFT, _Poetry, a Rhapsody,_ 1733.][Footnote 8:  "Know, Eusden thirsts no more for sack or praise;  He sleeps among the dull of ancient days;  Where wretched Withers, Ward, and Gildon rest,  And high-born Howard, more majestic sire,  With fool of quality completes the choir.  Thou, Cibber! thou his laurel shalt support;  Folly, my son, has still a friend at court."                                        _Dunciad_, Bk. I.Warburton, by-the-by, exculpates Eusden from any worse fault, as awriter, than being too prolix and too prolific.--See Note to_Dunciad_, Bk. II. 291.][Footnote 9: Duck stands at the head of the prodigious school inEnglish literature. All the poetical bricklayers, weavers, cobblers,farmer's boys, shepherds, and basket-makers, who have since astonishedtheir day and generation, hail him as their general father.][Footnote 10: The antiquary may be pleased to know that the "Devil"tavern in Fleet Street, the old haunt of the dramatists, was the placewhere the choir of the Chapel Royal gathered to rehearse the Laureateodes. Hence Pope, at the close of _Dunciad I._,  "Then swells the Chapel-Royal throat;  'God save King Cibber!' mounts in every note.  Familiar White's 'God save King Colley!' cries;  'God save King Colley!' Drury-Lane replies;"][Footnote 11:  "On his own works with laurel crowned,  Neatly and elegantly bound,--  For this is one of many rules  With writing Lords and laureate fools,  And which forever must succeed  With other Lords who cannot read,  However destitute of wit,  To make their works for bookcase fit,--  Acknowledged master of those seats,  Cibber his birthday odes repeats."                                        CHURCHILL, _The Ghost_.][Footnote 12: Swift charges Colley with having wronged Grub Street, byappropriating to himself all the money Britain designed for itspoets:--  "Your portion, taking Britain round,  Was just one annual hundred pound;  Now not so much as in remainder,  Since Cibber brought in an attainder,  Forever fixed by right divine,  A monarch's right, on Grub-Street line."                                        _Poetry, a Rhapsody_, 1733.][Footnote 13: Whatever momentary benefit may result from satire, it isclear that its influence in the long run is injurious to literature.The satirist, like a malignant Archimago, creates a false medium,through which posterity is obliged to look at his contemporaries,--amedium which so refracts and distorts their images, that it is almostout of the question to see them correctly. There is no rule, as inastronomy, by which this refraction may be allowed for and corrected.][Footnote 14: London, 1749, 8vo.][Footnote 15: Charge to the Poets, 1762.][Footnote 16: If the reader cares to hear the best that can be said ofThomas Warton, let him read the Life of Milton, prefixed by SirEgerton Brydges to his edition of the poet. If he has any curiosity tohear the other side, let him read all that Ritson ever wrote, and Dr.Charles Symnions, in the Life of Milton, prefixed to the standardedition of the Prose Works, 1806. Symnions denies to Warton thepossession of taste, learning, or sense. Certainly, to an American,the character of Joseph Warton, the brother of Thomas, is far moreamiable. Joseph was as liberal as his brother was bigoted. WhileThomas omits no chance of condemning Milton's republicanism, in hisnotes to the Minor Poems, Joseph is always disposed to sympathize withthe poet. The same generous temper characterizes his commentary uponDryden.][Footnote 17: _Sonnet upon the River Lodon_.][Footnote 18: Dr. Huddersford's _Salmagundi_.][Footnote 19: One of the earlier poems of Alexander Wilson, theornithologist, was entitled, _The Laurel Disputed_, and was publishedin 1791. We have not met with it; but we apprehend, from title anddate, that it is a _jeu d'esprit_, founded upon the recentappointment. The poetry of Wilson was characterized by much originalhumor.][Footnote 20:  "Come to our _fete_, and show again  That pea-green coat, thou pink of men!  Which charmed all eyes, that last surveyed it;  When Brummel's self inquired, 'Who made it?'  When Cits came wondering from the East,  And thought thee Poet Pye at least."                                        _Two-Penny Post-Bag_, 1812.][Footnote 21: TENNYSON, _Maud_.]WATER-LILIES.The inconstant April mornings drop showers or sunbeams over theglistening lake, while far beneath its surface a murky mass disengagesitself from the muddy bottom, and rises slowly through the waves. Thetasselled alder-branches droop above it; the last year's blackbird'snest swings over it in the grapevine; the newly-opened Hepaticas andEpigaeas on the neighboring bank peer down modestly to look for it;the water-skater (Gerris) pauses on the surface near it, casting onthe shallow bottom the odd shadow of his feet, like three pairs ofboxing-gloves; the Notonecta, or water-boatman, rows round and roundit, sometimes on his breast, sometimes on his back; queer caddis-wormstrail their self-made homesteads of leaves or twigs beside it; theDytiscus, dorbug of the water, blunders clumsily against it; thetadpole wriggles his stupid way to it, and rests upon it, meditatingof future frogdom; the passing wild-duck dives and nibbles at it; themink and musk-rat brush it with their soft fur; the spotted turtleslides over it; the slow larvae of gauzy dragon-flies cling sleepilyto its sides and await their change: all these fair or uncouthcreatures feel, through the dim waves, the blessed longing of spring;and yet not one of them dreams that within that murky mass there liesa treasure too white and beautiful to be yet intrusted to the waves,and that for many a day that bud must yearn toward the surface,before, aspiring above it, as mortals to heaven, it meets the sunshinewith the answering beauty of the Water-Lily.Days and weeks have passed away; the wild-duck has flown onward, todive for his luncheon in some remoter lake; the tadpoles have madethemselves legs, with which they have vanished; the caddis-worms havesealed themselves up in their cylinders, and emerged again as wingedinsects; the dragon-flies have crawled up the water-reeds, and,clinging with heads upward, (not downward, as strangely described in alate "North British Review,") have undergone the change whichsymbolizes immortality; the world is transformed from spring tosummer; the lily-buds are opened into glossy leaf and radiant flower,and we have come for the harvest.We lodged, last night, in the old English phrase, "at the sign of theOak and Star." Wishing, not, indeed, like the ancient magicians, togather magic berry and bud before sunrise, but at least to see thesetreasures of the lake in their morning hour, we camped last night on alittle island, which one tall tree almost covers with its branches,while a dense undergrowth of young chestnuts and birches fills all theintervening space, touching the water all around the circular,shelving shore. Yesterday was hot, but the night was cool, and wekindled a gypsy fire of twigs, less for warmth than for society. Thefirst gleam made the dark lonely islet into a cheering home, turnedthe protecting tree to a starlit roof, and the chestnut-sprays toilluminated walls. Lying beneath their shelter, every fresh flickeringof the fire kindled the leaves into brightness and banished into darkinterstices the lake and sky; then the fire died into embers, theleaves faded into solid darkness in their turn, and water and heavensshowed light and close and near, until fresh twigs caught fire and theblaze came up again. Rising to look forth, at intervals, during thenight,--for it is the worst feature of a night out-doors, thatsleeping seems such a waste of time,--we watched the hilly and woodedshores of the lake sink into gloom and glimmer into dawn again, amidthe low plash of waters and the noises of the night.Precisely at half-past three, a song-sparrow above our heads gave oneliquid trill, so inexpressibly sudden and delicious, that it seemed toset to music every atom of freshness and fragrance that Nature held;then the spell was broken, and the whole shore and lake were vocalwith song. Joining in this jubilee of morning, we were early inmotion; bathing and breakfast, though they seemed indisputably inaccordance with the instincts of the Universe, yet did not detain uslong, and we were promptly on our way to Lily Pond. Will the readerjoin us?It is one of those summer days when a veil of mist gradually burnsaway before the intense sunshine, and the sultry morning only plays atcoolness, and that with its earliest visitors alone. But we are beforethe sunlight, though not before the sunrise, and can watch the prettygame of alternating mist and shine. Stray gleams of glory lend theirtrailing magnificence to the tops of chestnut-trees, floating vaporsraise the outlines of the hills and make mystery of the woodedislands, and, as we glide through the placid water, we can sing, withthe Chorus in the "Ion" of Euripides, "O immense and brilliant air,resound with our cries of joy!"Almost every town has its Lily Pond, dear to boys and maidens, andpartially equalizing, by its annual delights, the presence or absenceof other geographical advantages. Ours is accessible from the largerlake only by taking the skiff over a narrow embankment, which protectsour fairyland by its presence, and eight distant factories by its dam.Once beyond it, we are in a realm of dark Lethean water, utterlyunlike the sunny depths of the main lake. Hither the water-lilies haveretreated, to a domain of their own. Darker than these dark waves,there stand in their bosom hundreds of submerged trees, and dismastedroots still upright, spreading their vast, uncouth limbs like enormousspiders beneath the surface. They are remnants of border wars with theaxe, vegetable Witheringtons, still fighting on their stumps, butgradually sinking into the soft ooze, and ready, perhaps, when a scoreof centuries has piled two more strata of similar remains in mud abovethem, to furnish foundations for a newer New Orleans; that city havingbeen lately discovered to be thus supported.The present decline in business is clear revenue to the water-lilies,and these waters are higher than usual because the idle factories donot draw them off. But we may notice, in observing the shores, thatpeculiar charm of water, that, whether its quantity be greater orless, its grace is the same; it makes its own boundary in lake orriver, and where its edge is, there seems the natural and permanentmargin. And the same natural fitness, without reference to merequantity, extends to its children. Before us lie islands andcontinents of lilies, acres of charms, whole, vast, unbroken surfacesof stainless whiteness. And yet, as we approach them, every islandedcup that floats in lonely dignity, apart from the multitude, appearsas perfect in itself, couched in white expanded perfection, itsreflection taking a faint glory of pink that is scarcely perceptiblein the flower. As we glide gently among them, the air grows fragrant,and a stray breeze flaps the leaves, as if to welcome us. Eachfloating flower becomes suddenly a ship at anchor, or rather seemsbeating up against the summer wind, in a regatta of blossoms.Early as it is, the greater part of the flowers are already expanded.Indeed, that experience of Thoreau's, of watching them open in thefirst sunbeams, rank by rank, is not easily obtained, unless perhapsin a narrow stream, where the beautiful slumberers are more regularlymarshalled. In our lake, at least, they open irregularly, thoughrapidly. But, this morning, many linger as buds, while others peer up,in half-expanded beauty, beneath the lifted leaves, frolicsome asPucks or baby-nymphs. As you raise the leaf, in such cases, it isimpossible not to imagine that a pair of tiny hands have upheld it, orelse that the pretty head will dip down again, and disappear. Others,again, have expanded all but the inmost pair of white petals, andthese spring apart at the first touch of the finger on the stem. Somespread vast vases of fragrance, six or seven inches in diameter, whileothers are small and delicate, with petals like fine lace-work.Smaller still, we sometimes pass a flotilla of infant leaves, an inchin diameter. All these grow from the deep, dark water,--and theblacker it is, the fairer their whiteness shows. But your eye followsthe stem often vainly into those sombre depths, and vainly seeks tobehold Sabrina fair, sitting with her twisted braids of lilies,beneath the glassy, cool, but not translucent wave. Do not start,when, in such an effort, only your own dreamy face looks back uponyou, beyond the gunwale of the reflected boat, and you find that youfloat double, self and shadow.Let us rest our paddles, and look round us, while the idle motionsways our light skiff onward, now half-embayed among the lily-pads,now lazily gliding over intervening gulfs. There is a great deal goingon in these waters and their fringing woods and meadows. All thesummer long, the pond is bordered with successive walls of flowers. Inearly spring emerge the yellow catkins of the swamp-willow, first;then the long tassels of the graceful alders expand and droop, tillthey weep their yellow dust upon the water; then come thebirch-blossoms, more tardily; then the downy leaves and white clustersof the medlar or shadbush (_Amelanchier Canadensis_ of Gray); thesedropping, the roseate chalices of the mountain-laurel open; as theyfade into melancholy brown, the sweet Azalea uncloses; and before itslast honeyed blossom has trailed down, dying, from the stem, the morefragrant Clethra starts out above, the button-bush thrusts forth itsmerry face amid wild roses, and the Clematis waves its sprays ofbeauty. Mingled with these grow, lower, the spiraeas, white and pink,yellow touch-me-not, fresh white arrowhead, bright blue vervain andskullcap, dull snakehead, gay monkey-flower, coarse eupatoriums,milk-weeds, golden-rods, asters, thistles, and a host beside. Beneath,the brilliant scarlet cardinal-flower begins to palisade the moistshores; and after its superb reflection has passed away from thewaters, the grotesque witch-hazel flares out its narrow yellow petalsamidst the October leaves, and so ends the floral year. There is not aweek during all these months, when one cannot stand in the boat andwreathe garlands of blossoms from the shores.These all crowd around the brink, and watch, day and night, theopening and closing of the water-lilies. Meanwhile, upon the waters,our queen keeps her chosen court, nor can one of these mereland-loving blossoms touch the hem of her garment. In truth, she bearsno sister near her throne. There is but this one species among us,_Nymphaea odorata_. The beautiful little rose-colored _Nymphaeasanguinea_, which once adorned the Botanic Garden at Cambridge, wasmerely an occasional variety of costume. She has, indeed, an Englishhalf-sister, _Nymphaea alba_, less beautiful, less fragrant, butkeeping more fashionable hours,--not opening (according to Linnaeus)till seven, nor closing till four. Her humble cousin, the yellowNuphar, keeps commonly aloof, as becomes a poor relation, thoughcreated from the selfsame mud,--a fact which Hawthorne has beautifullymoralized. The prouder Nelumbium, a second-cousin, lineal descendantof the sacred bean of Pythagoras, keeps aloof, through pride, nothumility, and dwells, like a sturdy democrat, in the Far West.But, undisturbed, the water-lily keeps her fragrant court, withfew attendants. The tall pickerel-weed (Pontederia) is hergentleman-usher, gorgeous in blue and gold through July, somewhatrusty in August. The water-shield (Hydropeltis) is chiefmaid-of-honor; she is a highborn lady, not without royal blood indeed,but with rather a bend sinister; not precisely beautiful, but veryfastidious; encased over her whole person with a gelatinous covering,literally a starched duenna. Sometimes she is suspected of conspiringto drive her mistress from the throne; for we have observed certainslow watercourses where the leaves of the water-lily have been almostwholly replaced by the similar, but smaller, leaves of thewater-shield. More rarely seen is the slender Utricularia, a daintymaiden, whose light feet scarce touch the water,--with the still moredelicate floating white Water-Ranunculus, and the shy Villarsia, whosesubmerged flowers merely peep one day above the surface and then closeagain forever. Then there are many humbler attendants, Potamogetons orpond-weeds. And here float little emissaries from the dominions ofland; for the fallen florets of the Viburnum drift among thelily-pads, with mast-like stamens erect, sprinkling the water with astrange beauty, and cheating us with the promise of a new aquaticflower.These are the still life of this sequestered nook; but it is in fact acrowded thoroughfare. No tropic jungle more swarms with busy existencethan these midsummer waters and their bushy banks. The warm andhumming air is filled with insect sounds, ranging from the murmur ofinvisible gnats and midges, to the impetuous whirring of the greatLibellulae, large almost as swallows, and hawking high in air fortheir food. Swift butterflies glance by, moths flutter, flies buzz,grasshoppers and katydids pipe their shrill notes, sharp as the edgesof the sunbeams. Busy bees go humming past, straight as arrows,express-freight-trains from one blossoming copse to another. Showywasps of many species fume uselessly about, in gallant uniforms,wasting an immense deal of unnecessary anger on the sultry universe.Graceful, stingless Sphexes and Ichneumon-flies emulate their bustle,without their weapons. Delicate lady-birds come and go to themilkweeds, spotted almost as regularly as if Nature had decided tonumber the species, like policemen or hack-drivers, from one totwenty. Elegant little Lepturae fly with them, so gay and airy, theyhardly seem like beetles. Phryganeae, (_nes_ caddisworms,) laceflies,and long-tailed Ephemerae flutter more heavily by. On the largealder-flowers clings the superb _Desmocerus palliatus_, beautiful as atropical insect, with his steel-blue armor and his golden cloak(_pallium_) above his shoulders, grandest knight on this Field of theCloth of Gold. The countless fireflies which spangled the evening mistnow only crawl sleepily, daylight creatures, with the lustre buried intheir milky bodies. More wholly children of night, the soft, luxuriousSphinxes (or hawk-moths) come not here; fine ladies of the insectworld, their home is among gardens and green-houses, late and languidby day, but all night long upon the wing, dancing in the air withunwearied muscles till long past midnight, and supping on honey atlast. They come not here; but the nobler butterflies soar above us,stoop a moment to the water, and then with a few lazy wavings of theirsumptuous wings float far over the oak-trees to the woods they love.All these hover near the water-lily; but its special parasites are anelegant beetle (_Donacia metallica_) which keeps house permanently inthe flower, and a few smaller ones which tenant the surface of theleaves,--larva, pupa, and perfect insect, forty feeding like one, andeach leading its whole earthly career on this floating island ofperishable verdure. The "beautiful blue damsel-flies" alight also inmultitudes among them, so fearless that they perch with equalreadiness on our boat or paddle, and so various that two adjacentponds will sometimes be haunted by two distinct sets of species. Inthe water, among the leaves, little shining whirlwigs wheel round andround, fifty joining in the dance, till, at the slightest alarm, theywhirl away to some safer ballroom, and renew the merriment. On everyfloating log, as we approach it, there is a convention of turtles,sitting in calm debate, like mailed barons, till, as we approach, theyplump into the water, and paddle away for some subaqueous Runnymede.Beneath, the shy and stately pickerel vanishes at a glance, shoals ofminnows glide, black and bearded pouts frisk aimlessly, softwater-lizards hang poised without motion, and slender pickerel-frogscease occasionally their submerged croaking, and, darting to thesurface with swift vertical strokes, gulp a mouthful of fresh air, anddown again to renew the moist soliloquy.Time would fail us to tell of the feathered life around us,--theblackbirds that build securely in these thickets, the stray swallowsthat dip their wings in the quiet waters, and the kingfishers thatstill bring, as the ancients fabled, halcyon days. Yonder stands,against the shore, a bittern, motionless in that wreath of mist whichmakes his long-legged person almost as dim as his far-off booming bynight. There poises a hawk, before sweeping down to some chosen boughin the dense forest; and there fly a pair of blue-jays, screaming,from tree to tree. As for wild quadrupeds, the race is almost passedaway. Far to the North, indeed, the great moose still browses on thelily-pads, and the shy beaver nibbles them; but here the few lingeringfour-footed creatures only haunt, but do not graze upon these floatingpastures. Eyes more favored than ours may yet chance to spy an otterin this still place; there by the shore are the small footprints of amink; that dark thing disappearing in the waters, yonder, a soft massof drowned fur, is a "musquash." Later in the season, a mound of earthwill be his winter dwelling-place; and those myriad muscle-shells atthe water's edge are the remnant of his banquets,--once banquets forthe Indians, too.But we must return to our lilies. There is no sense of wealth likefloating in this archipelago of white and green. The emotions ofavarice become almost demoralizing. Every flower bears a fragrantCalifornia in its bosom, and you feel impoverished at the thought ofleaving one behind. But after the first half-hour of eager grasping,one becomes fastidious, rather scorns those on which the wasps andflies have alighted, and seeks only the stainless. But handle themtenderly, as if you loved them. Do not grasp at the open flower as ifit were a peony or a hollyhock, for then it will come off, stalkless,in your hand, and you will cast it blighted upon the water; but coilyour thumb and second finger affectionately around it, press theextended forefinger firmly to the stem below, and with one steady pullyou will secure a long and delicate stalk, fit to twine around thegraceful head of your beloved, as the Hindoo goddess of beautyencircled with a Lotus the brow of Rama.Consider the lilies. All over our rural watercourses, at midsummer,float these cups of snow. They are Nature's symbols of coolness. Theysuggest to us the white garments of their Oriental worshippers. Theycome with the white roses and prepare the way for the white lilies ofthe garden. The white doe of Rylstone and Andrew Marvell's fawn mightfitly bathe amid their beauties. Yonder steep bank slopes down to thelake-side, one solid mass of pale pink laurel, but, once upon thewater, a purer tint prevails. The pink fades into a lingering flush,and the white creature floats peerless, set in green without and goldwithin. That bright circle of stamens is the very ring with whichDoges once wedded the Adriatic, Venice has lost it, but it droppedinto the water-lily's bosom, and there it rests forever. So perfect inform, so redundant in beauty, so delicate, so spotless, sofragrant,--what presumptuous lover ever dared, in his most enamoredhour, to liken his mistress to a water-lily? No human Blanche orLilian was ever so fair as that.The water-lily comes of an ancient and sacred family of white-robedpriests. They assisted at the most momentous religious ceremonies,from the beginning of recorded time. The Egyptian Lotus was a sacredplant; it was dedicated to Harpocrates and to the god NofrAtmoo,--Nofr meaning _good_, whence the name of our yellow lily,Nuphar. But the true Egyptian flower was _Nymphaea Lotus_, though_Nymphaea caerulea_, Moore's "blue water-lilies," can be traced on thesculptures also. It was cultivated in tanks in the gardens; it was thechief material for festal wreaths; a single bud hung over the foreheadof many a queenly dame; and the sculptures represent the weary flowersas dropping from the heated hands of belles, in the later hours of thefeast. Rock softly on the waters, fair lilies! your Eastern kindredhave rocked on the stormier bosom of Cleopatra. The Egyptian Lotuswas, moreover, the emblem of the sacred Nile,--as the Hindoo species,of the sacred Ganges; and both the one and the other was held thesymbol of the creation of the world from the waters. The sacred bullApis was wreathed with its garlands; there were niches for water, toplace it among tombs; it was carved in the capitals of columns; it wasrepresented on plates and vases; the sculptures show it in many sacreduses, even as a burnt-offering; Isis holds it; and the god Nilus stillbinds a wreath of water-lilies around the throne of Memnon.From Egypt the Lotus was carried to Assyria, and Layard found it amongfir-cones and honeysuckles on the later sculptures of Nineveh. TheGreeks dedicated it to the nymphs, whence the name _Nymphaea_. Nor didthe Romans disregard it, though the Lotus to which Ovid's nymph Lotiswas changed, _servato nomine_, was a tree, and not a flower. Stilldifferent a thing was the enchanted stem of the Lotus-eaters ofHerodotus, which prosaic botanists have reduced to the _ZizyphusLotus_ found by Mungo Park, translating also the yellow Lotus-dustinto a mere "farina, tasting like sweet gingerbread."But in the Lotus of Hindostan we find our flower again, and theOriental sacred books are cool with water-lilies. Open the VishnuPurana at any page, and it is a _Sortes Lilianae_. The orb of theearth is Lotus-shaped, and is upborne by the tusks of Vesava, as if hehad been sporting in a lake where the leaves and blossoms float.Brahma, first incarnation of Vishnu, creator of the world, was bornfrom a Lotus; so was Sri or Lakshmu, the Hindoo Venus, goddess ofbeauty and prosperity, protectress of womanhood, whose worship guardsthe house from all danger. "Seated on a full-blown Lotus, and holdinga Lotus in her hand, the goddess Sri, radiant with beauty, rose fromthe waves." The Lotus is the chief ornament of the subterranean Eden,Patala, and the holy mountain Meru is thought to be shaped like itsseed-vessel, larger at summit than at base. When the heavenly Urvasifled from her earthly spouse, Puruvavas, he found her sporting withfour nymphs of heaven, in a lake beautified with the Lotus. When thevirtuous Prahlada was burned at the stake, he cried to his cruelfather, "The fire burneth me not, and all around I behold the face ofthe sky, cool and fragrant with beds of Lotus-flowers!" Above all, thegraceful history of the transformations of Krishna is everywhere hungwith these fresh chaplets. Every successive maiden whom the deitywooes is Lotus-eyed, Lotus-mouthed, or Lotus-cheeked, and the youthfulhero wears always a Lotus-wreath. Also "the clear sky was bright withthe autumnal moon, and the air fragrant with the perfume of the wildwater-lily, in whose buds the clustering bees were murmuring theirsong."Elsewhere we find fuller details. "In the primordial state of theworld, the rudimental universe, submerged in water, reposed on thebosom of the Eternal. Brahma, the architect of the world, poised on aLotus-leaf, floated upon the waters, and all that he was able todiscern with his eight eyes was water and darkness. Amid scenes soungenial and dismal, the god sank into a profound reverie, when hethus soliloquized: 'Who am I? Whence am I?' In this state ofabstraction Brahma continued during the period of a century and a halfof the gods, without apparent benefit or a solution of his inquiries,a circumstance which caused him great uneasiness of mind." It is acomfort, however, to know, that subsequently a voice came to him, onwhich he rose, "seated himself upon the Lotus in an attitude ofcontemplation, and reflected upon the Eternal, who soon appeared tohim in the form of a man with a thousand heads": a questionableexchange for his Lotus-solitude.This is Brahminism; but the other great form of Oriental religion hascarried the same fair symbol with it. One of the Bibles of theBuddhists is named "The White Lotus of the Good Laer." A piousNepaulese bowed in reverence before a vase of lilies which perfumedthe study of Sir William Jones. At sunset in Thibet, the Frenchmissionaries tell us, every inhabitant of every village prostrateshimself in the public square, and the holy invocation, "Oh, the gem inthe Lotus!" goes murmuring over hill and valley, like the sound ofmany bees. It is no unmeaning phrase, but an utterance of ardentdesire to be absorbed into that Brahma whose emblem is the sacredflower. The mystic formula or "mani" is imprinted on the pavement ofthe streets, it floats on flags from the temples, and the wealthyBuddhists maintain sculptor-missionaries, Old Mortalities of thewater-lily, who, wandering to distant lands, carve the blessed wordsupon cliff and stone.Having got thus far into Orientalism, we can hardly expect to get outagain without some slight entanglement in philology. Lily-pads. Whence_pads_? No other leaf is identified with that singular monosyllable.Has our floating Lotus-leaf any connection with padding, or with afootpad? with the ambling pad of an abbot, or a paddle, or a paddock,or a padlock? with many-domed Padua proud, or with St. Patrick? Is thename derived from the Anglo-Saxon _paad_ or _petthian_, or the Greek[Greek: pateo]? All the etymologists are silent; Tooke and Richardsonignore the problem; and of the innumerable pamphlets in the Worcesterand Webster Controversy, loading the tables of school-committee-men,not one ventures to grapple with the lily-pad.But was there ever a philological trouble for which the Sanscrit couldnot afford at least a conjectural cure? A dictionary of that extremelyvenerable tongue is an ostrich's stomach, which can crack the hardestetymological nut. The Sanscrit name for the Lotus is simply _Padma_.The learned Brahmins call the Egyptian deities Padma Devi, orLotus-Gods; the second of the eighteen Hindoo Puranas is styled thePadma Purana, because it treats of the "epoch when the world was agolden Lotus"; and the sacred incantation which goes murmuring throughThibet is "Om mani padme houm." It would be singular, if upon thesedelicate floating leaves a fragment of our earliest vernacular hasbeen borne down to us, so that here the schoolboy is more learned thanthe _savans_.This lets us down easily to the more familiar uses of this plantdivine. By the Nile, in early days, the water-lily was good not merelyfor devotion, but for diet. "From the seeds of the Lotus," said Pliny,"the Egyptians make bread." The Hindoos still eat the seeds, roastedin sand; also the stalks and roots. In South America, from the seedsof the Victoria (_Nymphaea Victoria_, now _Victoria Regia_) a farinais made, preferred to that of the finest wheat,--Bonpland evensuggesting to our reluctant imagination Victoria-pies. But theEuropean species are used, so far as we know, only in dyeing, and asfood (if the truth be told) of swine. Our own water-lily is rathermore powerful in its uses; the root contains tannin and gallic acid,and a decoction of it "gives a black precipitate, with sulphate ofiron." It graciously consents to become an astringent, and a styptic,and a poultice, and, banished from all other temples, still lingers inthose of AEsculapius.The botanist also finds his special satisfactions in our flower. Ithas some strange peculiarities of structure. So loose is the internaldistribution of its tissues, that it was for some time held doubtfulto which of the two great vegetable divisions, exogenous orendogenous, it belonged. Its petals, moreover, furnish the bestexample of the gradual transition of petals into stamens,--illustrating that wonderful law of identity which is thegreat discovery of modern science. Every child knows this peculiarityof the water-lily, but the extent of it seems to vary with season andlocality, and sometimes one finds a succession of flowers almostentirely free from this confusion of organs.Our readers may not care to know that the order of Nymphaeaceae"differs from Ranunculaceae in the consolidation of its carpels, fromPapaveraceae in the placentation not being parietal, and fromNelumbiaceae in the want of a large truncated disc containingmonospermous achenia"; but they may like to know that the water-lilyhas relations on land, in all gradations of society, from poppy tomagnolia, and yet does not conform its habits precisely to those ofany of them. Its great black roots, sometimes as large as a man's arm,form a network at the bottom of the water. Its stem floats, an airyfour-celled tube, adapting itself to the depth, though never stiff inshallows, like the stalk of the yellow lily: and it contracts andcurves when seed-time approaches, though not so ingeniously as thespiral threads of the European Vallisneria, which uncoil to let theflowers rise to the surface, and then cautiously retract, that theseeds may ripen on the very bottom of the lake. The leaves showbeneath the magnifier beautiful adaptations of structure. They arenot, like those of land-plants, constructed with deep veins to receivethe rain and conduct it to the stem, but are smooth and glossy, and ofeven surface. The leaves of land-vegetation have also thousands oflittle breathing-pores, principally on the under side: the apple-leaf,for instance, has twenty-four thousand to a square inch. But here theyare fewer; they are wholly on the upper side, and, whereas in othercases they open or shut according to the moisture of the atmosphere,here the greedy leaves, secure of moisture, scarcely deign to closethem. Nevertheless, even these give some recognition of hygrometricnecessities, and, though living on the water, and not merelychristened with dewdrops like other leaves, but baptized by immersionall the time, they are yet known to suffer in drought and to takepleasure in the rain.We have spoken of the various kindred of the water-lily; but we mustnot leave our fragrant subject without due mention of its mostmagnificent, most lovely relative, at first claimed even as its twinsister, and classed as a Nymphaea. We once lived near neighbor to aVictoria Regia. Nothing, in the world of vegetable existence, has sucha human interest. The charm is not in the mere size of the plant,which disappoints everybody, as Niagara does, when tried by that solestandard. The leaves of the Victoria, indeed, attain a diameter of sixfeet; the largest flowers, of twenty-three inches,--less than fourtimes the size of the largest of our water-lilies. But it is not themere looks of the Victoria, it is its life which fascinates. It is nota thing merely of dimensions, nor merely of beauty, but a creature ofvitality and motion. Those vast leaves expand and change almostvisibly. They have been known to grow half an inch an hour, eightinches a day. Rising one day from the water, a mere clenched mass ofyellow prickles, a leaf is transformed the next day to a crimsonsalver, gorgeously tinted on its upturned rim. Then it spreads into araft of green, armed with long thorns, and supported by a frame-workof ribs and cross-pieces, an inch thick, and so substantial, that theBrazil Indians, while gathering the seed-vessels, place their youngchildren on the leaves;--_yrupe_, or water-platter, they call theaccommodating plant. But even these expanding leaves are not the gloryof the Victoria; the glory is in the opening of the flower.We have sometimes looked in, for a passing moment, at the green-house,its dwelling-place, during the period of flowering,--and then stayedfor more than an hour, unable to leave the fascinating scene. Afterthe strange flower-bud has reared its dark head from the placid tank,moving it a little, uneasily, like some imprisoned water-creature, itpauses for a moment in a sort of dumb despair. Then trembling again,and collecting all its powers, it thrusts open, with an indignantjerk, the rough calyx-leaves, and the beautiful disrobing begins. Thefirm, white, central cone, first so closely infolded, quivers alittle, and swiftly, before your eyes, the first of the hundred petalsdetaches its delicate edges, and springs back, opening towards thewater, while its white reflection opens to meet it from below. Manymoments of repose follow,--you watch,--another petal trembles,detaches, springs open, and is still. Then another, and another, andanother. Each movement is so quiet, yet so decided, so living, sohuman, that the radiant creature seems a Musidora of the water, andyou almost blush with a sense of guilt, in gazing on that peerlessprivacy. As petal by petal slowly opens, there still stands thecentral cone of snow, a glacier, an alp, a jungfrau, while eachavalanche of whiteness seems the last. Meanwhile, a strange rich odorfills the air, and Nature seems to concentrate all fascinations andclaim all senses for this jubilee of her darling.So pass the enchanted moments of the evening, till the fair thingpauses at last, and remains for hours unchanged. In the morning, oneby one, those white petals close again, shutting all their beauty in,and you watch through the short sleep for the period of waking. Canthis bright transfigured creature appear again, in the same chastebeauty? Your fancy can scarcely trust it, fearing some disastrouschange; and your fancy is too true a prophet. Come again, after thesecond day's opening, and you start at the transformation which onehour has secretly produced. Can this be the virgin Victoria,--thisthing of crimson passion, this pile of pink and yellow, relaxed,expanded, voluptuous, lolling languidly upon the water, never to riseagain? In this short time every tint of every petal is transformed; itis gorgeous in beauty, but it is "Hebe turned to Magdalen."But our rustic water-lily, our innocent Nymphaea, never claiming sucha hot-house glory, never drooping into such a blush, blooms onplacidly in the quiet waters, till she modestly folds her leaves forthe last time, and bows her head beneath the surface forever. Nextyear she lives for us only in her children, fair and pure as herself.Nay, not alone in them, but also in memory. The fair vision will notfade from us, though the paddle has dipped its last crystal drop fromthe waves, and the boat is drawn upon the shore. We may yet visit manylovely and lonely places,--meadows thick with violet, or the homes ofthe shy Rhodora, or those sloping forest-haunts where the slightLinnaea hangs its twin-born heads,--but no scene will linger on ourvision like this annual Feast of the Lilies. On scorching mountains,amid raw prairie-winds, or upon the regal ocean, the white pageantshall come back to us again, with all the luxury of summer heats, andall the fragrant coolness that can relieve them. We shall fancyourselves again among these fleets of anchored lilies,--again, likeUrvasi, sporting amid the Lake of Lotuses.For that which is remembered is often more vivid than that which isseen. The eye paints better in the presence, the heart in the absence,of the object most dear. "He who longs after beautiful Nature can bestdescribe her," said Bettine; "he who is in the midst of her lovelinesscan only lie down and enjoy." It enhances the truth of the poet'sverses, that he writes them in his study. Absence is the very air ofpassion, and all the best description is _in memoriam_. As with ourhuman beloved, when the graceful presence is with us, we cannotanalyze or describe, but merely possess, and only after its departurecan it be portrayed by our yearning desires; so is it with Nature:only in losing her do we gain the power to describe her, and we areintroduced to Art, as we are to Eternity, by the dropping away of ourcompanions.FIFTY AND FIFTEEN.  With gradual gleam the day was dawning,    Some lingering stars were seen,  When swung the garden-gate behind us,--    He fifty, I fifteen.  The high-topped chaise and old gray pony    Stood waiting in the lane:  Idly my father swayed the whip-lash,    Lightly he held the rein.  The stars went softly back to heaven,    The night-fogs rolled away,  And rims of gold and crowns of crimson    Along the hill-tops lay.  That morn, the fields, they surely never    So fair an aspect wore;  And never from the purple clover    Such perfume rose before.  O'er hills and low romantic valleys    And flowery by-roads through,  I sang my simplest songs, familiar,    That he might sing them too.  Our souls lay open to all pleasure,--    No shadow came between;  Two children, busy with their leisure,--    He fifty, I fifteen.       *       *       *       *       *  As on my couch in languor, lonely,    I weave beguiling rhyme,  Comes back with strangely sweet remembrance    That far-removed time.  The slow-paced years have brought sad changes,    That morn and this between;  And now, on earth, my years are fifty,    And his, in heaven, fifteen.ILLINOIS IN SPRING-TIME: WITH A LOOK AT CHICAGO.I remember very well, that, when I studied the "Arabian Nights," witha devotion which I have since found it difficult to bestow on theperusal of better books, the thing that most excited my imaginationwas the enchanted locomotive carpet, granted by one of the amiablegenii to his favorite, to whom it gave the power of being in a momentwhere nobody expected him, paying visits at the most unfashionablehours, and making himself generally ubiquitous when interest orcuriosity prompted. The other wonders were none of them inexhaustible.Donkeys that talked after their heads were cut off, just as well assome donkeys do with them on,--old cats turned into beautifuldamsels,--birds that obligingly carried rings between partedlovers,--one soon had enough of. Caves full of gold and silver, andlighted by gems resplendent as the stars, were all very well, but soontired. After your imagination had selected a few rings and bracelets,necklaces and tiaras, and carried off one or two chests full of gold,what could it do with the rest,--especially as they might vanish orturn to pebbles or hazel-nuts in your caskets?But flying carpets! They could never tire. You seated yourself just inthe middle, in the easiest possible attitude, and at a wish you wereoff, (not off the carpet, but off this work-a-day world,) careeringthrough sunny fields of air with the splendid buoyancy of the eagle,steering your intelligent vehicle by a mere thought, and descending,gently as a snow-flake, to garden-bower or palace-window, moonlitkiosk or silent mountain-peak, as whim suggested or affairs urged.This was magic indeed, and worthy the genii of any age.The sense of reality with which I accepted this wonder of wonders hasfurnished forth many a dream, sleeping and waking, since those days;and it is no uncommon thing for me, even now, to be sailing throughthe air, feeling its soft waves against my face, and the deliciousrefreshment of the upper ether in my breast, only to wake as if I haddropped into bed with a celerity that made the arrival upon earthanything but pleasant. I am not sure but there is some reality inthese flights, after all. These aerial journeys may be foretastes ofthose we shall make after we are freed from the incumbrance ofavoirdupois. I hope so, at least.Yet there are good things of the kind here below, too. After all, whatwere a magic carpet that could carry a single lucky wight,--at best,but a species of heavenly sulky,--compared with a railroad train thatspeeds along hundreds of men, women, and children, over land andwater, with any amount of heavy baggage, as well as a boundless extentof crinoline? And if this equipage, gift of genii of our age, seem tolack some of the celerity and secrecy which attended the voyagers ofthe flying carpet, suppose we add the power of whispering to a frienda thousand miles off the inmost thoughts of the heart, the mostdesperate plans, the most dangerous secrets! Do not the two powersunited leave the carpet immeasurably behind?Shakspeare is said, in those noted lines,--  "Dear as the ruddy drops  That visit this sad heart,"to have anticipated the discovery of the circulation of the blood: didnot the writers of the Oriental stories foresee rail and telegraph,and describe them in their own tropical style?It is often said, that, although medical science leaves us pretty muchas it found us with regard to the days of the years of our pilgrimage,and has as yet, with all its discoveries, done little towardsprolonging "this pleasing, anxious being," yet the materialimprovements of our day do in effect lengthen mortal life for us. Andtruly, what must Indian life have been worth, when it took a month tocut down a tree with a stone hatchet, and when the shaping of a canoewas the work of a year? When two hundred miles of travel consumed aweek's time, every two hundred miles' journey was worth a week's life;and if we accept the idea of a certain celebrated character, (not"Quintus Curtius," but Geoffrey Crayon, I believe,) that the time wespend in journeying is just so much subtracted from our little span ofdays, what a fearful loss of life must have resulted from our oldmodes of locomotion! And yet we inconsiderately grumble at anoccasional smash-up! So easily are we spoiled!There are grave doubts, however, in some minds, whether our presentcelerity of travel be wholly a gain upon the old methods. It mustdepend upon circumstances. If agreeable people virtually live longernow, so do bores, cheats, slanderers, hypocrites, and people who eatonions and chew tobacco; and the rail enables these to pursue theirvictims with inevitable, fatal swiftness.Some hold that the pleasure of travelling is even impaired by thisincrease of speed. There is such a thing as fatal facility. As welleat a condensed dinner, or hear a concert in one comprehensive crash,ear-splitting and soul-confounding, as see miles of landscape at aglance. Willis says, travelling on an English railway is equivalent tohaving so many miles of green damask unrolled before your weary eyes.And one may certainly have too much of a good thing.But, instead of discussing railroads in general,--too grand a themefor me,--let me say that nobody can persuade me it is not delightfulto fly over ground scarcely yet trodden by the foot of man; topenetrate, with the most subtle resources of inventive art, therecesses in which Nature has enshrined herself most privately,--herdressing-room, as it were, where we find her in her freshness, beforeman-milliners have marred her beauty by attempts at improvement. Thecontrast between that miracle of art, a railroad-train at full speed,and a wide, lonely prairie, or a dusky forest, leafless, chilly, andsilent,--save for the small tinkling of streams beginning to breakfrom their frosty limits,--is one of the most striking in all the widerange of rural effects. It reminds me, though perhaps unaccountably tosome, of Browning's fine image,--  "And ever and anon some bright white shaft  Burnt through the pine-tree roof, here burnt    and there,  As if God's messenger through the close    wood-screen  Plunged and re-plunged his weapon at a venture."Even where fields have begun to be tilled and houses and barns to bebuilt, the scared flying of domestic animals at sound of the terrificvisitor,--the resistless chariot of civilization with scythed axlesmowing down ignorance and prejudice as it whirls along,--tells a wholestory of change and wonder. We can almost see the shadows of the pastescaping into the dim woods, or flitting over the boundless prairie,shivering at the fearful whistle, and seeking shelter from the wind ofour darting.The season for this romantic pleasure of piercing primeval Nature onthe wings of subtilest Art is rapidly drawing to a close. How fewpenetrable regions can we now find where the rail-car is a novelty!The very cows and horses, in most places, know when to expect it, andhardly vouchsafe a sidelong glance as they munch their green dinner. Arailroad to the Pacific may give excitement of this kind a somewhatlonger date, but those who would enjoy the sensation on routes alreadyin use must begin their explorings at once. There is no time to belost. If we much longer spend all our summers in beating thechangeless paths of the Old World, our chance for the fresh butfleeting delight I have been speaking of will have passed by, never toreturn. It were unwise to lose this, one of the few remaining avenuesto a new sensation. Europe will keep; but the prairies will not, thewoods will not, hardly the rivers. Already the flowery waving oceansof Illinois begin to abound in ships, or what seem such,--houseslooming up from the horizon, like three-masters sometimes, sometimesschooners, and again little tentative sloops. These are creepingnearer and nearer together, filling and making commonplace thoselovely deserts where the imagination can still find wings, andworld-wearied thought a temporary repose. Where neighbors were onceout of beacon-sight, they are now within bell-sound; and howeverpleasant this may be for the neighbors, it is not so good for thetraveller, especially the traveller who has seen Europe. Only think ofa virgin forest or prairie, after over-populated Belgium or finishedEngland! Europeans understand the thing, and invariably rush for theprairies; but we Americans, however little we may have seen of eitherworld, care little for the wonders of our own. Yet, when we go abroad,we cannot help blushing to acknowledge that we have not seen the moststriking features of our own country. I speak from experience. Scott,describing the arid wastes of the Hebrides,--  "Placed far amid the melancholy main,"and swept bare by wintry-cold sea-breezes, said,--  "Yes! 'twas sublime, but sad; the loneliness   Loaded thy heart, the desert tired thine eye."But how different the loneliness of a soft-waving prairie,--soft evenbefore the new grass springs; soft in outline, in coloring, in itswhispering silence! Nothing sad or harsh; no threat or repulsion; onlymild hope, and promise of ease and abundance. Whether the glad flamessport amid the long dry grass of last year, or the plough turn up adeep layer of the exhaustless soil, or flocks of prairie-chickens flyup from every little valley, images of life, joy, and plenty belong tothe scene. The summer flowers are not more cheerful than the springblaze, the spring blackness of richness, or the spring whirr andflutter. The sky is alive with the return of migratory birds, swingingback and forth, as if hesitating where to choose, where all is good.Frogs hold noisy jubilees, ("Anniversary Meetings," perhaps,)--veryhoarse, and no wonder, considering their damp lodging,--but singing,in words more intelligible than those of the opera-choruses, "Winter'sgone! Spring's come! No, it isn't! Yes, it is!"--and the Ayes have it.The woodpecker's hammer helps the field-music, wherever he can find atree. He seems to know the carpenter is coming, and he makes the mostof his brief season. All is life, movement, freedom, joy. Not on thevery Alps, where their black needles seem to dart into the bluedepths, or snow-fields to mingle with the clouds, is the immediate,vital sympathy of Earth with Heaven more evident and striking.The comparative ease with which prairie regions are prepared for theadvent of the great steam-car is exactly typical of the facilitieswhich they offer to other particulars of civilization. As thesmoothing of the prairie path, preparatory to railway speed, is butshort work, compared with the labor required in grading and levellingmountainous tracts for the same purpose, so the introduction of allthat makes life desirable goes on with unexampled rapidity where theland requires no felling of heavy timber to make it ready for theplough, and where the soil is rich to such a depth that no man fearsany need of new fertilizing in his life-time or his son's. We observethis difference everywhere in prairiedom; and it is perhaps thisthought, this close interweaving of marked outward aspect with greathuman interests, that gives the prairie country its air of peculiarcheerfulness. To man the earth was given; for him its use and itsbeauty were created; it is his idea which endows it with expression,whether savage or kindly. Rocks and mountains suggest the forcerequired to conquer difficulties, and the power with which the lord ofcreation is endowed to subdue them; and the chief charm and interestof such regions is derived, consciously or unconsciously, from thissuggestion. Prairie images are more domestic, quiet, leisurely. Nosevere, wasting labor is demanded before corn and milk for wife andlittle ones are wrung from reluctant clods. No danger is there of sonsor daughters being obliged to quit their homes and roam over foreignlands for a precarious and beggarly subsistence. No prairie-boy willever carry about a hand-organ and a monkey, or see his sister yoked tothe plough, by the side of horse or ox. Blessed be God that there arestill places where grinding poverty is unfelt and unfeared! "Richesfineless" belong to these deep, soft fields, and they becomepicturesque by the thought, as the sea becomes so by the passing of aship, and the burning desert by the foot-print of a traveller or theashes of his fire.It was in spring weather, neither cold nor warm, now and then shiny,and again spattering with a heavy shower, or misty under a warm, slowrain,--the snow still lying in little streaks under shadyridges,--that I first saw the prairies of Illinois. Everybody--kindeverybody!--said, "Why didn't you come in June?" But I, not being abird of the air, who alone travels at full liberty, the world beforehim where to choose and Providence his guide, cared not to answer thisfriendly query, but promised to be interested in the spring aspect ofthe prairies, after my fashion, as sincerely as more fastidioustravellers can be in the summer one. It is very well to be preparedwhen company is expected, but friends may come at any time. "Brownfields and pastures bare" have no terrors for me. Green is gayer, butbrown softer. Blue skies are not alone lovely; gray ones set themoff--Rain enhances shine. Mud, to be sure;--but then railroads are theNapoleons of mud. Planks and platforms quench it completely. One maytravel through tenacious seas of it without smirching one's boot-heel.There is even a feeling of triumph as we see it lying sulky andimpotent on either side, while we bowl along dry-shod. When Noah andhis family came out of the Ark, and found all "soft with the Deluge,"it was very different. The prospect must have been discouraging. Ithought of it as we went through, or rather over, the prairies. But ifthere had been in those days an Ararat Central, with good "incline"and stationary engine, they need not have sent out dove or raven, butmight have started for home as soon as the rails shone in the sun andthey could get the Ark on wheels. It would have been well to movecarefully, to be sure; and it is odd to think what a journey theymight have had, now and then stopping or switching-off because of adead Mastodon across the track, or a panting Leviathan lashing out,thirstily, with impertinent tail,--to say nothing of sadder sights andimpediments.There were only pleasant reminiscences of the Great Deluge as we flewalong after a little one. Happy we! in a nicely-cushioned car,berthed, curtained, and, better than all, furnished with the "bestsociety," _sans_ starch, _sans_ crinoline; the gentlemen sitting ontheir hats as much as they pleased, and the ladies giving curls andcollars the go-by, all in tip-top humor to be pleased. I could imaginebut one improvement to our equipage,--that a steam-organ attached toit should have played, very softly, Felicien David's lovely levelmusic of "The Desert," as we bowled along. There were long glitteringside-streams between us and the black or green prairie,--streams withlittle ripples on their faces, as the breeze kissed them in passing,and now and then a dimple, under the visit of a vagrant new-bornbeetle. To call such shining waters mud or puddles did not accord withthe spirit of the hour; so we fancied them the "mirroring waters" ofthe poet, and compared them to fertilizing Nile,--whose powers,indeed, they share, to some extent. By their sides _ought_ to beplanted willows and poplars, and alders of half a dozen kinds, but arenot yet. All in good time. Thirsty trees would drink up superfluousmoisture, and in return save fuel by keeping off sweeping winds, andmoney by diverting heavy snows, those Russian enemies to the Napoleonrail, and by preserving embankments, to which nothing but interlacingroots can give stability. Rows of trees bordering her railroads wouldmake Illinois look more like France, which in many respects shealready resembles.The haze or _mirage_ of the prairies is wonderfully fantastic anddeceptive. The effect which seamen call _looming_ is one of thecommonest of its forms. This brings real but distant objects intoview, and dignifies them in size and color, till we can take afarm-house for a white marble palace, and leafless woods with sunsetclouds behind them for enchanted gardens hung with golden fruit. Butthe most gorgeous effects are, as is usual with air-castles, createdout of nothing,--that is, nothing more substantial than air, mist, andsun- or moon- or star-beams. Fine times the imagination has, riding onpurple and crimson rays, and building Islands of the Blest amongvapors that have just risen from the turbid waters of the Mississippi!No Loudon or Downing is invoked for the contriving or beautifying ofthese villa-residences and this landscape-gardening. Genius comes withinspiration, as inspiration does with genius; and we are our ownarchitects and draughtsmen, rioting at liberty with Nature's splendidpalette at our command, and no thought of rule or stint. Why should wenot, in solider things, derive more aid, like the poor little"Marchioness" of Dickens, from this blessed power of imagination?Those who do so are always laughed at as unpractical; but are they notmost truly practical, if they find and use the secret of gilding over,and so making beautiful or tolerable, things in themselves mean orsad?Once upon a time, then, the great State of Illinois was all underwater;--at least, so say the learned and statistical. If you doubt it,go count the distinctly-marked ridges in the so-called bluffs, and seehow many years or ages this modern deluge has been subsiding. Whereits remains once lay sweltering under the hot sun, and sucking miasmsfrom his beams, now spread great green expanses, wholesome andfertile, making the best possible use of sunbeams, and offering, bytheir aid, every earthly thing that men and animals need for theirbodily growth and sustenance, in almost fabulous abundance.The colored map of Illinois, as given in a nice, new book, called,"Illinois as it is," looks like a beautiful piece of silk, brocaded ingreen (prairies) on a brownish ground (woodland tracts),--the surfaceshowing a nearly equal proportion of the two; while the swampy lands,designated by dark blue,--in allusion, probably, to the occasionalstate of mind of those who live near them,--take up a scarceappreciable part of the space. Long, straggling "bluffs," on the banksof the rivers, occupy still less room; but they make, on land andpaper, an agreeable variety. People thus far go to them only for themineral wealth with which they abound. It will be many years, yet,before they will be thought worth farming; not because they would notyield well, but because there is so much land that yields better.Some parts of the State are hilly, and covered with the finest timber.The scenery of these tracts is equal to any of the kind in the UnitedStates; and much of it has been long under cultivation, having beenearly chosen by Southern settlers, who have grown old upon the soil.Here and there, on these beautiful highlands, we find ancient ladies,bright-eyed and cheerful, who tell us they have occupied the selfsamehouse--built, Kentucky-fashion, with chimney outside--for forty yearsor so. The legends these good dames have to tell are, no doubt, quiteas interesting in their way as those which Sir Walter Scott used tothread the wilds of Scotland to gather up; but we value them not.By-and-by, posterity will anathematize us for letting our old nationalstories die in blind contempt or sheer ignorance of their value.The only thing to be found fault with in the landscape is the want ofgreat fields full of stumps. It does not seem like travelling in a newcountry to see all smooth and ready for the plough. Trees are not herelooked upon as natural enemies; and so, where they grow, there theystand, and wave triumphant over the field like victors' banners. Nofiner trees grow anywhere, and one loves to see them so prized. Yet wemiss the dear old stumps. My heart leaps up when I behold hundreds ofthem so close together that you can hardly get a plough between. Long,long years ago, I have seen a dozen men toiling in one little clearedspot, jollily engaged in burning them with huge fires of brush-wood,chopping at them with desperate axes, and tearing the less tenaciousout by the roots, with a rude machine made on the principle of thatinstrument by the aid of which the dentist revenges you on anoffending tooth. The country looks tame, at first, without thesecharacteristic ornaments, so suggestive of human occupancy. The groundis excellently fertile where stumps have been, and association makesus rather distrustful of its goodness where nothing but grass has evergrown.The prairies are not as flat in surface as one expects to find them.Except in the scarcity of trees, their surface is very much like otherportions of what is considered the best farming land. There are greattracts of what are called bushy prairies, covered with a thick growthof hazel and sassafras, jessamine and honey-suckle, and abounding ingrape-vines. These tracts possess springs in abundance. The "islands"so often alluded to by travellers are most picturesque and beautifulfeatures in the landscape. They must not be compared to oases, forthey are surrounded by anything but sterility; but they are theevidence of springs, and generally of a slight rise in the ground, andthe timber upon them is of almost tropical luxuriance. Herds of deerare feeding in their shade, the murmur of wild bees fills the air, andthe sweet vine-smell invites birds and insects of every brilliantcolor. Prairie-chickens are in flocks everywhere, and the approach ofcivilization scarcely ever disturbs them. No engine-driver in thesouthern part of the State but has often seen deer startled by theapproach of his train, and many tell tales of more ferocious denizensof the wilds. Buffalo have all long since disappeared; but what timesthey must have had in this their paradise, before they went! On thehigher prairies the grass is of a superior quality, and its seedalmost like wheat. On those which are low and humid it grows rank andtough, and sometimes so high that a man on horseback may pass throughit unobserved. The crowding of vegetation, owing to the over-fertilityof the soil, causes all to tend upward, so that most of the growth isextra high, rather than spreading in breadth. In the very earlyspring, the low grass is interspersed with quantities of violets,strawberry-blossoms, and other delicate flowers. As the grass growstaller, flowers of larger size and more brilliant hues diversify it,till at length the whole is like a flowery forest, but destined to beburnt over in the autumn, leaving their ashes to help forward thesplendid growth of their successors.One of the marvels of this marvellous prairiedom, at the present hour,is the taste and skill displayed in houses and gardens. One fancies a"settler" in the Western wilds so occupied with thoughts of shelterand sustenance as hardly to remember that a house must beperpendicular to be safe, and a garden fenced before it is worthplanting. But every mile of our prairie-flight reminds us, that, whereno time and labor are to be consumed in felling trees and "toting"logs to mill,--planks and joists, and such like, walking in, by rail,all ready for the framing,--there is leisure for reflection and choiceas to form; and also, that, where fertility is the inevitableattendant upon the first incision of the plough, _what_ we shall plantand _how_ we shall plant it become the only topics for consideration.Setting aside the merely temporary residences of the poorer class offarmers,--houses sure to be replaced by palaces of pine-boards, atleast, before a great while, provided the owner does not "move West,"or take to whiskey,--the cottages we catch glimpses of fromcar-windows are pretty and well-planned, and some of them show evenbetter on the inside than on the out. I must forbear to enlarge on thecomfort and abundance of these dwellings, lest I trench upon privatematters; but I may mention, by way of illustrating my subject, andsomewhat as the painter introduces human figures into his picture togive an idea of the height of a tower or the vastness of a cathedral,that I have found an abundant and even elegant table, under frescoedceiling, in a cottage near the Illinois Central, and far south of themid-line of this wonderful State, so lately a seeming waste throughmuch of its extent.And thus throughout. At one moment a bare expanse, lookingman-despised, if not God-forgotten,--and at the next, a smilingvillage, with tasteful dwelling, fine shrubbery, great hotels, spirespointing heavenward, and trees that look down with the consciousdignity of old settlers, as if they had stood just so since the timeof good Father Marquette, that stout old missionary, who first plantedthe holy cross in their shade, and, "after offering to the Mightiestthanks and supplications, fell asleep to wake no more."There are many interesting reminiscences or traditions of the earlyEuropean settlers of Illinois. After Father Marquette,--whom I alwaysseem to see in Hicks's sweet picture of a monk inscribing the nameJESU on the bark of a tree in the forest,--came La Salle, an emissaryof the great Colbert, under Louis XIV.; an explorer of many heroicqualities, who has left in this whole region important traces of hiswanderings, and the memory of his bloody and cruel murder at theimpious hands of his own followers, who had not patience to endure tothe end. Counted as part of Florida, under Spanish rule, and part ofLouisiana, under that of the French,--falling into the hands of thecelebrated John Law, in the course of his bubble Mississippi scheme,and afterwards ceded with Canada and Nova Scotia to the English,Illinois was never Americanized until the peace of '83. The spongyturf of her prairies bore the weight of many a fort, and drank theblood of the slain in many a battle, when all around her was at peace.The fertility of her soil and the comparative mildness of her climatecaused her to be eagerly contended for, as far back as 1673, when thepioneers grew poetical under the inspiration of "a joy that could notbe expressed," as they passed her "broad plains, all garlanded withmajestic forests and checkered with illimitable prairies and islandgroves." "We are Illinois," said the poor Indians to FatherMarquette,--meaning, in their language, "We are men." And the Jesuitstreated them as men; but by traders they soon began to be treated likebeasts; and of course--poor things!--they did their best to behaveaccordingly. All the forts are ruins now; there is no longer occasionfor them. The Indians are nothing. There can scarcely be found theslightest trace of their occupancy of these rich acres. Nations thatbuild nothing but uninscribed burial-places foreshadow their owndoom,--to return to the soil and be forgotten. But the mode of theirpassing away is not, therefore, a matter of indifference.On the stronger and more intelligent rests the responsibility of suchchanges; and in the case of our Indians, it is certain that a load ofguilt, individual and national, rests somewhere. Necessity is noChristian plea, "It must needs be that offences come, but woe to himby whom the offence cometh!" The Indian and the negro shall rise up injudgment against our rich and happy land, and condemn it forinhumanity and selfishness. Have they not already done so? Blood andtreasure, poured out like water, have been the beginnings ofretribution in one case; a deeper and more vital punishment, such asbelongs to bosom-sins, awaits us in the other. Shall no penitence, nosacrifice, attempt to avert it?Illinois, level, fertile, joyous, took French rule very kindly. Themissionaries, who were physicians, schoolmasters, and artisans, aswell as preachers, lived among the people, instructed them in the artsof life as well as in the ceremonies and spirit of the Catholic faith;and natives and foreigners seem to have dwelt together in peace andlove. The French brought with them the regularity and neatness thatcharacterize their home-settlements, and the abundance in which theylived enabled them to be public-spirited and to deal liberally evenwith the Indians. They raised wheat in such plenty that Indian cornwas cultivated chiefly for provender, although they found the_voyageurs_ glad to buy it as they passed back and forth on theiradventurous journeys. The remains of their houses show howsubstantially they built; two or three modern sudden houses could bemade out of one old French picketed and porticoed cottage.The appearance of an Illinois settler in those days was ratherpicturesque than elegant,--substance before show being the principleupon which it was planned. While the Indian still wore his paint andfeathers when he came to trade, the rural swain appeared in a _capote_made of blanket, with a hood that served in cold weather instead of aLeary, buck-skin overalls, moccasins of raw-hide, and, generally, onlya natural shock of Sampsonian locks between his head and the sun;while his lady-love was satisfied with an outfit not verydifferent,--save that there is no tradition that she ever capped theclimax of ugliness by wearing Bloomers. There were gay colors forholidays, no doubt; but not till 1830, we are told, did the genuineIllinois settler adopt the commonplace dress of this imitative land.What pity when people are in such haste to do away with everythingcharacteristic in costume!Both sexes worked hard, bore rough weather without flinching, andattended carefully to their religious duties; but, withal, they weregay and joyous, ready for dance and frolic, and never so anxious tomake money that they forgot to make fun.What must the ghosts of these primitive Christians think of theirsuccessors, ploughing in broadcloth and beaver, wading through the mudin patent-leather boots, and all the while wrinkled with anxiety,gaunt with ambition, and grudging themselves three holidays a year!Immigrants in time changed the character of the population as well asits dress, and for a while there seems to have been something of ajumble of elements, new laws conflicting with old habits, hungrypoliticians preying upon a simple people, who only desired to be letalone, and who, when they discovered some gross imposition, werephilosophical enough to call it, jokingly, being "greased andswallowed." This anarchical condition resulted, as usual, in habits ofpersonal violence; and, at one time, an adverse vote was consideredmatter for stabbing or gouging, and juries often dismissedindictments, fearing private vengeance in case of a discharge of theirduty. They made a wide distinction, in murder trials, between him whocommitted the crime in a passion and those who did the thing quietly;so that you had only to walk up to the person who had offended you,and shoot him in the open street, to feel tolerably sure of impunity.In short, there seems to have prevailed, at that time, north of Masonand Dixon's line, very much the same state of things that stillprevails south of it; but there was other leaven at work, and the goodsense of the people gradually got the better of this short-sightedfolly of violence.It is reported as fact, by all writers on the earlier history of thisState, that the holding of courts was conducted very much in the stylereported of the back counties of Georgia and Alabama in our day. Thesheriff would go out into the court-yard and say to the people, "Comein, boys,--the court is going to begin,"--or sometimes, "Our John isgoing to open court now,"--the judge being just one of the "boys."Judges did not like to take upon themselves the _onus_ of decidingcases, but shared it with the jury as far as possible. One story, wellauthenticated, runs thus: A certain judge, having to pass sentence ofdeath upon one of his neighbors, did it in the following form: "Mr.Green, the jury in their verdict say you are guilty of murder, and thelaw in that case says you are to be hung. Now I want you and all yourfriends down on Indian Creek to know that it is not me that condemnsyou, but the jury and the law. What time would you like to be hung,Sir?" The poor man replied, that it made no difference to him; hewould rather the court should appoint a time. "Well, then, Mr. Green,"says the judge, "the court will allow you four weeks' time to preparefor death and settle up your business." It was here suggested by theAttorney-General that it was usual in such cases for the court torecapitulate the essential parts of the evidence, to set forth thenature and enormity of the crime, and solemnly to exhort the prisonerto repent and fit himself for the awful doom awaiting him. "Oh!" saidthe judge, "Mr. Green understands all that as well as if I hadpreached to him a month. Don't you, Mr. Green? You understand you'reto be hung this day four weeks?" "Yes, Sir," replied Mr. Green, and sothe matter ended.One legal brilliant blazes on the forehead of youthful Illinois, inthe shape of a summary remedy for duelling. One of those heroes whothink it safer to appeal to chance than to logic in vindication oftarnished honor, and who imagine the blood of a dead friend the onlysalve to be relied on for the cure of wounded feelings, killed hisopponent in a duel. The law of Illinois very coolly hanged thesurvivor; and from that time to this, other remedies have been foundfor spiritual hurts, real or imaginary. Nobody has fancied itnecessary to fight with a noose round his neck. If ever capitalpunishment were lawful, (which I confess I do not think it ever canbe,) it would be as a desperate remedy against this horrid relic ofmediaeval superstition and impiety, no wiser or more Christian thanthe ordeal by burning ploughshares or poisoned wine. The rope injudicial hands is certainly as lawful as the pistol in rash ones; sothe duellist has no reason to complain.Some of the later days of Illinois, the days of Indian wars and Mormonwars, pro-slavery wars and financial wars, are too red and black forpeaceful pages; and as they were incidental rather thancharacteristic, they do not come within our narrow limits. There isstill too large an infusion of the cruel slavery spirit in the laws ofIllinois; but the immense tide of immigration will necessarily remedythat, by overpowering the influence introduced over the southernborder. So nearly a Southern State was Illinois once considered to be,that, in settling the northern boundary, it was deemed essential togive her a portion of the lake-shore, that her interests might be atleast balanced. They have proved to be more than balanced by this wiseprovision.The little excuse there is in this favored region for a sordiddevotion to toil, a journey through the State, even at flying pace, issufficient to show. The fertility of the soil is the despair ofscientific farming. Who cares for rules, when he has only to drop aseed and tread on it, to be sure of a hundred-fold return? Who talksof succession of crops, when twelve burdens of wheat, taken from thesame soil in as many years, leave the ground black and ready foranother yield of almost equal abundance? An alluvial tract of aboutthree hundred thousand acres, near the Mississippi, has beencultivated in Indian corn a hundred and fifty years,--indeed, eversince the French occupation of Illinois. What of under-draining? Someforty or fifty rivers threading the State, besides smaller streamsinnumerable, always will do that, as soon as the Nilic floods ofspring have accomplished their work by floating to the surface thefinest part of the soil. Irrigation? You may now grow rice on one farmand grapes on another, without travelling far between. It is true,there must be an end to this universality of power and advantage, someday; but nobody can see far enough ahead to feel afraid, and it is notin the spirit of our time to think much about the good of ourgrandchildren. "What has posterity done for me?" is the instinctivequestion of the busy Westerner, as he sits down under vine andfig-tree which his own hands have planted, to enjoy peace and plenty,after suffering the inevitable hardships of pioneer life. You may tellhim he is not wise to scorn good rules; but he will reply, that he didnot come so far West, and begin life anew, for the sake of being wise,but of making money, and that as rapidly as possible. He has forgottenthe care and economy learned among the cold and stony hills of NewEngland, and wants to do everything on a large scale. He likes to hearof patent reapers, Briarean threshing-machines, and anything that willsave him most of the time and trouble of gathering in his heavycrops,--but that is all. The growth of those crops he has nothing todo with. That is provided for by Nature in Illinois; if it were not,he would move "out West."Stories of this boundless fertility are rife here. One pioneer toldus, that, when a fence is to be made and post-holes are wanted, it isonly necessary to drop beet-seed ten feet apart all around the field,and, when the beet is ripe, you pull it up and your post-hole isready! To be sure, there was a twinkle in the corner of his eye as hestated this novel and interesting fact; but, after all, the fertilityin question was not so extravagantly "poefied" by this _canard_ assome may suppose. Our friend went on to state, that, in his district,they had a kind of corn which produced from a single grain a dozenstalks of twelve ears each; and not content with this, on _most_ ofthe stalks you would find, somewhere near the top, a small calabashfull of shelled corn! To put the matter beyond doubt, he pulled ahandful of the corn from his pocket, which he invited us to plant, andsatisfy ourselves.The reader has probably concluded, by this time, that beets and cornare not the only enormous things grown in Illinois.A friend told us, in perfectly good faith, that a tract of his, somefourteen thousand acres, in the southern part of the State, containedcoal enough to warm the world, and more iron than that coal wouldsmelt,--salt enough for all time, and marble and rich metallic ores ofvarious kinds besides. In one region are found inexhaustible beds oflimestone, the smoke of whose burning fills the whole spring air, andthe crevices of whose formation make very pokerish-looking caves,which young and adventurous ladies are fond of exploring; in anotherwe come to quantities of that snow-white porcelain clay of which somepeople suppose themselves to have been originally formed, but whichhas been, in a commercial point of view, hitherto a _desideratum_ inthese United States of ours. The people at Mound City (an aspiringrival of Cairo, on the banks of the Ohio) are about building a factoryfor the exploitation of this clay, not into ladies and gentlemen,(unpopular articles here,) but into china-ware, the quality of whichwill be indisputable.One soon ceases wondering at the tropicality of the Illinoisianimagination. Ali Baba's eye-straining experiences were poor, comparedto these every-day realities.The "Open Sesame" in this case has been spoken through therailroad-whistle. Railroads cannot make mines and quarries, and fatsoil and bounteous rivers; yet railroads have been the making ofIllinois. Nobody who has ever seen her spring roads, where there areno rails, can ever question it. From the very fatness of her soil, thegreater part of the State must have been one Slough of Despond forthree quarters of the year, and her inhabitants strangers to eachother, if these iron arms had not drawn the people together andbridged the gulfs for them. No roads but railroads could possibly havethreaded the State, a large and the best portion of whose surface isabsolutely devoid of timber, stone, gravel, or any other availablematerial. The prairies must have remained flowery deserts, visited asa curiosity every year by strangers, but without dwellings for want ofwood. The vast quarries must, of course, have lain useless, for wantof transporting power,--our friend's coal and iron undisturbed,waiting for an earthquake,--and the poetical pioneer's beets andIndian corn unplanted, and therefore uncelebrated. Well may it be saidhere, that iron is more valuable than gold. Population, agriculture,the mechanic arts, literature, taste, civilization, in short, are allmagnetized by the beneficent rail, and follow wherever it leads. Thewhole southern portion of Illinois has been nicknamed "Egypt,"--whether because at its utmost point, on a dampish delta,reposes the far-famed city of Cairo,--or whether, as wicked satiristspretend, its denizens have been found, in certain particulars, ratherbehind our times in intellectual light. Whatever may have been theoriginal excuse for the _sobriquet_, the derogatory one exists nomore. Light has penetrated, and darkness can reign no longer. Everyday, a fiery visitant, bearing the collective intelligence of thewhole world's doings and sayings, dashes through Egypt into Cairo,giving off scintillations at every hamlet on the way,--and every daythe brilliant marvel returns, bringing northward, not only the goodthings of the Ohio and Mississippi, but tropic _on-dits_ and oranges,only a few hours old, to the citizens of Chicago, far "in advance ofthe (New York) mail." With the rail comes the telegraph; and whispersof the rise and fall of fancies and potatoes, of speculations andelections, of the sale of corner-lots and the evasion ofbank-officers, are darting about in every direction over our heads, aswe unconsciously admire the sunset, or sketch a knot of rosy childrenas they come trooping from a quaint school-house on the prairie edge.Fancy the rail gone, and we have neither telegraph, nor school-house,nor anything of all this but the sunset,--and even that we could notbe there to see in spring-time, at least, unless we could transmigratefor the time into the relinquished forms of some of these aboriginalbull-frogs, which grow to the nice size of two feet in length,destined, no doubt, to receive the souls of habitual croakershereafter.But if the railroads have been the making of the land, it is not to bedenied that the land has been the making of the railroads. Egyptianminds they must have been, that grudged the tracts given by the UnitedStates to the greatest of roads, the greatest road in the world.Having bestowed a line of alternate sections on this immenseundertaking,--vital in importance, and impossible without suchaid,--the Government at once doubled the price of the intermediatesections, _and sold them at the doubled price_, though they had beenyears, and might have been ages, in market unsold, without means ofcommunication and building. Who, then, was the loser? Not the UnitedStates; for they received for half the land just what they wouldotherwise have received for the whole. Not the State; for it layshands on a good slice of the annual profits, not to speak ofincalculable benefits beside. Not the farmer, surely; for what wouldhis now high-priced land be worth, if the grand road were annihilated?Not the bond-holder; for he receives a fair, full interest on hismoney. Not the stock-holder; for he looks with eyes of faith toward agreat future. It was a sort of triangular or quadrangular orpentangular bargain, in which all these parties were immenselybenefited. The traveller blesses such liberal policy, as he fliesalong towards the land of oranges, or turns aside to measure mammothbeets or weigh extra-supernal corn, to "bore" or to "prospect," topick at ooelite and shale or to "peep and botanize" through aninexhaustible Flora. The present writer has certainly reason to begrateful,--not, alas! with that gushing warmth of feeling which theowners of shares or bonds naturally experience,--but as an "'umbleindividual" who could not have found material for this valuablearticle, if certain gentlemen who do own the said shares had not beenvery enterprising.The man who may be said to have devised the land-basis for railroadsthrough unsettled tracts--a financier of unsurpassed sagacity, andonce the soul of commercial honor as well as intelligence--should not,in his dishonored grave, and far beyond the reach of human scorn orvengeance, be denied the credit of what he accomplished before thefatal madness seized his soul and dragged him to perdition. Let it beenough that his name has come to be an epithet of infamy in his land'slanguage. Let not the grandeur of his views, the intent with which heset out, and the good he achieved, be lost in oblivion. Pride--"bythat sin fell the angels!"--cast him headlong down the irrecoverablesteep,--  "And when he fell, he fell like Lucifer,"--aye! like Wolsey and Bacon,--  "Never to rise again!"It is no sin to hope that the All-seeing eye discerned in those nobleundertakings and beneficent results the germ of wings that shall oneday bear him back to light and mercy. Let us, who benefit by his gooddeeds, not insist on remembering only the evil!Chicago, the Wondrous, sits amid her wealth, like a magnificentsultana, half-reclining over a great oval mirror, supplied by thatlake of lakes, the fathomless Michigan. Perhaps the resemblance mightbe unpoetically traced to particulars; for we are told by lotos-eatingtravellers, that Oriental beauties, with all their splendor, are notespecially clean. Certain it is that our Occidental sultana dressesher fair head with towers and spires, and hangs about her neck longrows of gems in the shape of stately and elegant dwellings,--yet,descending to her feet, we sink in mud and mire, or tumble unguardedlyinto excavations set like traps for the unwary, or oust whole coloniesof rats from beneath plank walks where they have burrowed securelyever since "improvements" began. At some seasons, indeed, there is nomud; because the high winds from the lake or the prairies turn the mudinto dust, which blinds our eyes, fills our mouths, and makes usQuakers in appearance and anything but saints in heart.Chicago-walking resembles none but such as Christian encountered as hefled from the City of Destruction; yet in this case the ills are thoseof a City of _Con_struction.--sure to disappear as soon as thebuilders find time to care for such trifles. Chicago people, it iswell known, walk with their heads in the clouds, and, naturally, donot mind what happens to their feet. It is only strangers who exclaim,and sometimes more than exclaim, at the dangers of the way. Cast-awaycarriages lie along the road-side, like ships on Fire Island beach.Nobody minds them. If you see a gentleman at a distance, progressingslowly with a gliding or floundering pace, you conclude he has a horseunder him, and, perhaps, on nearer approach, you see bridle andheadstall. This is in early spring, while the frost is coming out ofthe ground. As the season advances, the horse emerges, and you arejust getting a fair sight of him when the dust begins and hedisappears again. So say the scoffers, and those who would, but donot, own any city-lots in that favored vicinity; and to the somewhatheated mind of the traveller who encounters such things for the firsttime, the story does not seem so very much exaggerated. Simplewayfarers like myself, however, tell no such wicked tales of theGarden City; but remember only her youth, her grandeur, her spirit,her hospitality, her weight of cares, her immense achievements, andher sure promise of future metropolitan splendors.The vicinity of Chicago is all dotted with beautiful villa-residences.To drive among them is like turning over a book of architecturaldrawings,--so great is their variety, and so marked the taste whichprevails. Many of them are of the fine light-colored stone found inthe neighborhood, and their substantial excellence inspires a feelingthat all this prosperity is of no ephemeral character. People do notbuild such country-houses until they feel settled and secure. Thelake-shore is of course the line of attraction, for it is the onlynatural beauty of the place. But what trees! Several of the streets ofChicago may easily become as beautiful drives as the far-famed Cascineat Florence, and will be so before her population doublesagain,--which is giving but a short interval for the improvement. Noparks as yet, however. Land on the lake-shore is too precious, and theflats west of the town are quite despised. Yet city parks do notdemand very unequal surface, and it would not require a very potentlandscape-gardener or an unheard-of amount of dollars to make a finedriving-and riding-ground, where the new carriages of the fortunatemight be aired, and the fine horses of the gay exercised, during agood part of the year.To describe Chicago, one would need all the superlatives set in a row.Grandest, flattest,--muddiest, dustiest,--hottest, coldest,--wettest,driest,--farthest north, south, east, and west from other places,consequently most central,--best harbor on Lake Michigan, worst harborand smallest river any great commercial city ever lived on,--mostelegant in architecture, meanest in hovel-propping,--wildest inspeculation, solidest in value,--proudest in self-esteem, loudest inself-disparagement,--most lavish, most grasping,--most public-spiritedin some things, blindest and darkest on some points of highestinterest.And some poor souls would doubtless add,--most fascinating, or mostdesolate,--according as one goes there, gay and hopeful, to findtroops of prosperous friends, or, lonely and poor, with the distanthope of bettering broken fortunes by struggling among the drivingthousands already there on the same errand. There is, perhaps, noplace in the world where it is more necessary to take a bright andhopeful view of life, and none where this is more difficult. There istoo much at stake. Those who have visited Baden-Baden and her Kursaalsisters in the height of the season need not be told that no"church-face" ever equalled in solemnity the countenances of those whosurround the fatal tables, waiting for the stony lips of the croupierto announce "_Noir perd_" or "_Rouge gagne_." At Chicago are a widertable, higher stakes, more desperate throws, and Fate herselfpresiding, or what seems Fate, at once partial and inexorable.But, on this great scale, even success fails to bring smiles. Thewinners sit "with hair on end at their own wonders," and half-fearingthat such golden showers have some illusion about them and may provefairy favors at last. Next to this fueling comes the thirst for more.Enlarged means bring enlarged desires and ever-extending plans. Therepose and lightness of heart that were at first to be the reward ofsuccess recede farther and farther into the dim distance, until atlast they are lost sight of entirely, confessed, with a sigh, to beunattainable. How can people in this State wear cheerful countenances?When one looks at the gay and social faces and habits of some littleGerman town, where are cultivated people, surrounded by the books andpictures they love, with leisure enough for music and dancing andtea-garden chat, for deep friendships and lofty musings, it would seemas if our shrewd Yankee-land and its outcroppings at the West had notyet found out everything worth knowing. Froissart's famous remarkabout the English in France--"They take their pleasure sadly, aftertheir fashion"--may apply to the population of Chicago, and it will besome time yet, I fancy, before they will take it very gayly.At a little country-town, the other day, not within a thousand milesof Chicago, a family about leaving for a distant place advertisedtheir movables for sale at auction. There was such a stir throughoutthe settlement as called forth an expression of wonder from astranger. "Ah!" said a good lady, "auctions are the only gayety wehave here!"Joking apart, there was a deep American truth in this seeming_niaiserie_.Chicago has, as we have said, with all her wealth, no public park orother provision for out-door recreation. She has no gallery of Art, orthe beginning of one,--no establishment of music, no publiclibrary,--no social institution whatever, except the church. Withoutthat blessed bond, her people would be absolute units, as independentof each other as the grains of sand on the seashore, swept hither andthither by the ocean winds.But even before these words have found their way to the Garden City,they will, perhaps, be inapplicable,--so rapid is progress at theWest. The people are like a great family moving into a new house.There is so much sweeping and dusting to do, so much finding of placesfor the furniture, so much time to spend in providing for breakfast,dinner, and tea, lodging and washing, that nobody thinks of unpackingthe pictures, taking the books out of their boxes, or getting updrives or riding-parties. All these come in good time, and will be thebetter done for a little prudent delay.There is, to the stranger, an appearance of extreme hurry in Chicago,and the streets are very peculiar in not having a lady walking inthem. Day after day I traversed them, meeting crowds of men, wholooked like the representatives of every nation and tongue andpeople,--and every class of society, from the greenest rustic, or themost undisguised sharper, to the man of most serious respectability,or him of highest _ton_. Yet one lady walking in the streets I sawnot; and when I say not one lady, I mean that I did not meet a womanwho seemed to claim that title, or any title much above that of anordinary domestic. Perhaps this is only a spring symptom, which passesoff when the mud dries up a little,--but it certainly gave a ratherforlorn or funereal aspect to the streets for the time.There is, nevertheless, potent inspiration in the resolute andoccupied air of these crowds. Hardly any one stays long among themwithout feeling a desire to share their excitement, and do somethingtowards the splendid future which is evidently beckoning them on.Preparing the future! It is glorious business. No wonder it makes thepulse quicken and the eye look as if it saw spirits. It may be said,that in some sense we are all preparing the future; but in the Westthere is a special meaning in the expression. In circumstances so newand wondrous, first steps are all-important. Those who have beenprovidentially led to become early settlers have immense power forgood or evil. One can trace in many or most of our Western towns, andeven States, the spirit of their first influential citizens. Happy isit for Chicago that she has been favored in this respect,--and to herhonor be it said, that she appreciates her benefactors. Of onecitizen, who has been for twenty years past doing the quiet and modestwork of a good genius in the city of his adoption, it is currentlysaid, that he has built a hundred miles of her streets,--and there isno mark of respect and gratitude that she would not gladly show him.Other citizens take the most faithful and disinterested care of herschools; and to many she is indebted for an amount of liberality andpublic spirit which is constantly increasing her enormous prosperity.Happy the city which possesses such citizens! Happy the citizens whohave a city so nobly deserving of their best services!AN EVENING WITH THE TELEGRAPH-WIRES.My cousin Moses has made the discovery that he is a powerfulmagnetizer.Like many others who have newly come into possession of a small tractin those mysterious, outlying, unexplored wildernesses of Nature,which we call by so many names, but which as yet refuse to be definedor classed, he has been naturally eager to commence operations, and_exploit_ and farm it a little. He is making experiments on a narrowborder of his wild lands. He is a man of will and of strong_physique_, with an inquiring and scientific turn of mind, whichinclines him chiefly to metaphysical studies. It is not to be wonderedat, that, having lately discovered that he possesses the mesmericgift, he should not sufficiently discriminate as to its application.Later he will see that it is an agent not to be tampered with, andnever to be used on healthy subjects, but applied only to invalids.To-day he is like a newly-armed knight-errant, bounding off on hissteed at sunrise, in search of adventures.One afternoon, not long since, he was telling me of his extraordinarysuccesses with somnambulists and _somnoparlists_,--of old ladies curedof nervous headaches and face-twitches, and of young ones put to sleepat a distance from the magnetizer, dropping into a trance suddenly asa bird struck by a gun-shot, simply by an act of his volition,--ofwater turned into wine, and wine into brandy, to the somnambulictaste,--and so on, till we got wandering into crooked by-paths ofphysics and metaphysics, that seemed to lead us nowhere inparticular,--when I said, "Come, Cousin Moses, suppose you try it onme, by way of experiment. But I have my doubts if you'll ever put meto sleep."My cousin yielded to my request with alacrity;--every subject formesmerism was for him legitimate;--and I relinquished myself to hispasses with the docility of a man about to be shaved.The passes from the head downward were kept up perseveringly for halfan hour, without my experiencing any change, or manifesting the leastsymptom of drowsiness. At last the charm began to work. I began to beconscious of a singular trickling or creeping sensation following themotion of his passes down my arms. My respiration grew short. Iexperienced, however, no tendency to sleep, and my mind was perfectlycalm and unexcited. My cousin was satisfied with his experiment sofar, but we both concluded it had better end here. So he made thereverse passes, in order to undo the knot he was beginning to tie inmy nerves. He did not, however, entirely succeed in untying it. I wasa healthy subject, and the magnetism continued to affect my nerves, inspite of the untangling passes.Soon after, I rose and took my leave. I was strangely excited, but itwas a purely physical, and not a mental excitement. Thinking that awalk would quiet me, I went through street after street, until Ireached the outskirts of the city. It was a mild September evening.The fine weather and the sight of the trees and fields tempted me tocontinue my walk. It was near sunset, and I strolled on and on,watching the purple gray and ruddy gold of the clouds, until I had gotfairly into the country.As I rambled on, I was suddenly seized with a fancy to climb a treewhich stood by the roadside, and rest myself in a convenient notchwhich I observed between two of the limbs. I was soon seated in amongthe branches, with a canopy of leaves around and over me,--feeling, inmy still nervous condition, as I leaned my back against the mossybark, like a magnified tree-toad in clothes.The air was balmy and fragrant, and against the amber of the westernsky rose and fell numberless little clouds of insects. The birds werechirping and fluttering about me, and made their arrangements fortheir night's lodging, in manifest dread of the clothed tree-toad whohad invaded their leafy premises.The peculiar nervousness which had taken possession of me was nowpassing off, to be replaced by a species of mental exaltation. I wasbecoming conscious of something approaching semi-clairvoyance, and yetnot in the ordinary form. Sensation, emotion, thought wereintensified. The landscape around me was dotted with farm-houses,pillowed in soft, dark clumps of trees. One by one, the lights beganto appear at the windows,--soft rising stars of home-joys. Theglorious September sunset was fading, but still resplendent in thewest. The landscape was pervaded with a deeper repose, the glowingclouds with a diviner splendor than that which filled the eye. Thenthronging memories awoke. My remembrances of all my past life in thecrowded cities of America and Europe rose vividly before me. In thelong strata of solid gray clouds, where the sun had gone down, leavingonly a few vapory gold-fishes swimming in the clear spaces above, Icould fancy I saw the lonely Roman Campagna and the wondrous dome ofSt. Peter's, as when first beheld on the horizon ten years ago. Then,as from the slopes of San Miniato at sunset, gray, red-tiled Florence,with its Boboli gardens, full of nightingales, its old towers andcathedrals, and its soaring Giotto Campanile. Then Genoa, with itsterraces and marble palaces, and that huge statue of Andre Doria. ThenNaples, gleaming white in the eye of day over her pellucid depths ofsea. The golden days of Italy floated by me. Then came the memories,glad or sad, of days that had passed in my own native land,--in thevery city that lay behind me,--the intimate communings with dearfriends,--the musical and the merry nights,--the trials, anxieties,sorrows----But all this is very egotistical and unnecessary. I merely meant tosay that I was in a peculiar, almost abnormal state of mind, thatevening. The spirit had, as it were, been drawn outwards, and perhapsslightly dislocated, by those mesmeric passes of my cousin, and I hadnot succeeded as yet in adjusting it quite satisfactorily in its oldbodily grooves and sockets. The condition I was in was not as pleasantas I could have wished; for I was as alive to painful remembrances andimaginations, as to pleasant ones. I seemed to myself like a revolvinglantern of a light-house,--now dark, now glowing with a fieryradiance.I asked myself, Is it that I have been blind and deaf and dull all mylife, and am just waking into real existence? or am I developing intoa _medium_,--Heaven forbid!--and the spirits pushing at some unguardedportal of the nervous system, and striving to take possession? Shall Ihear raps and knockings when I return to my solitary chamber, and sita powerless beholder of damaged furniture, which the spirits willnever have the conscience to promise payment for, when my landlady'sbill comes in? (By the way, have the spirits _ever_ behaved likegentlemen in this respect, and settled up fair and square for thebreakages they have indulged in by way of exemplifying the doctrine ofa future state?)As I soliloquized thus, I was attracted by a low vibrating note amongthe leaves. Looking through them, I saw, for the first time, that twoor three telegraph-wires, which I had observed skirting the road, randirectly through the tree in which I was seated. It was a strange sortof sound, that came in hurried jerks, as it were, accompanied with acorresponding jerk of the wire.A gigantic fancy flashed across me:--This State of New York is a greatguitar; yonder, at Albany, are the legislative pegs and screws; downthere in Manhattan Island is the great sounding-board; these ironwires are the strings! The spirits are singing, perhaps, with theirheads up there in the sweet heavens and the rosy clouds,--and thisvibration of the wires is a sort of loose jangling accompaniment oftheir unpractised hands on earth. The voice is always above thestrings.--This I thought in my semi-mesmeric condition, perhaps. Isoon laughed at my Brobdignagian nonsense, and said,--There is atelegraphic despatch passing. Now if I could only find out what itis!--that would be something new in science,--a discovery worthknowing,--to be able to hear or feel the purport of a telegraphicmessage, simply by touching the wire along which it runs!So, regardless of any electric shock I might receive, I thrust out myhand through the leaves of the tree, and boldly grasped the wire. Thejerks instantly were experienced in my elbow, and it was not longbefore certain short sentences were conveyed, magnetically, to mybrain. In my amazement at the discovery, I almost dropped out of thetree. However, I kept firm hold of the wire, and my sensorium made meaware of something passing like this:--"Market active. Fair demand forexchange. Transactions from five to ten thousand shares. Aristidesrailroad-stock scarce. Rates of freight to Liverpool firm. Yoursrespectfully, Grabber and Holdham."Upon my word, said I, this is rather dry!--only a merchant! I expectedsomething better than this, to commence with.The wire being now quiet, I fell into a musing upon the singulardiscovery I had made,--and whether I should get anything from thepublic or the government for revealing it. And then my thoughtswandered across the Atlantic, and I remembered those long rows oftelegraphic wires in France, ruled along the tops of highbarrier-walls, and looking against the sky like immensemusic-lines,--and those queer inverted-coffee-cup-like supports forthe wires, on the tall posts. Then I thought of music and coffee atthe Jardin Mabille. Then my fancy wandered down the Champs Elysees tothose multitudinous spider-web wires that radiate from the palace ofthe Tuileries, where the Imperial spider sits plotting and weaving hismeshes around the liberties of France. Then I thought, What a thingthis discovery of mine would be for political conspirators,--toreverse the whispering-gallery of Dionysius, and, instead of thetyrant hearing the secrets of the people, the people hearing thesecrets of the tyrant! Then I thought of Robespierre, and Marat, andCharlotte Corday, and Marie Antoinette,--then of Delaroche's andMueller's pictures of the unfortunate Queen,--then of pictures ingeneral,--then of landscape-scenery,--till I almost fell into a doze,when I was startled by a faint sound along the wire, as of a sigh,like the first thrill of the AEolian harp in the evening wind. Anothermessage was passing. I reached my hand out to the iron thread. Aconfused sadness began to oppress me. A mother's voice weeping overher sick child pulsed along the wire. Her husband was far away. Herlittle daughter lay very ill. "Come quick," said the voice. "I havelittle hope; but if you were only here, I should be calmer. If shemust die, it would be such a comfort to have you here!"I drew my hand away. I saw the whole scene too vividly. Who thismother was I knew not; but the news of the death of a child whom Iknew and loved could not have affected me more strangely and keenlythan this semi-articulate sob which quivered along the iron airtrack,in the silence of the evening, from one unknown--to another unknown.I roused myself from my sadness, and thought I would descend the treeand stroll home. The moon was up, and a pleasant walk before me, withenough to meditate upon in the singular discovery I had made. I wasabout to get down from my crotch in the tree, and was just reachingout my dexter leg to feel if I could touch a bough below me, when alow, wild shriek ran along the wire,--as when the wind-harp, abovereferred to for illustration, is blown upon by some rude, sharpnorthwester. In spite of myself, I touched the vibrating cord. Themessage was brief and abrupt, like a sea-captain's command:--"ShipTrinidad wrecked off Wildcat's Beach,--all hands lost,--no insurance!"Do you recollect, when sitting alone sometimes in your room, atmidnight, in the month of November, how, after a lull in the blast,the bleak wind will all at once seem to clutch at the windows, with ademoniac howl that makes the house rock? Do you remember thehalf-whistles and half-groans through the key-holes and crevices,--thecries and shrieks that rise and fall,--the roaring in thechimney,--the slamming of distant doors and shutters? Well, all thisseemed to be suggested in the ringing of the iron cord. The veryleaves, green and dewy, and the delicate branches, seemed to quiver asthe dreary message passed.I thought,--This is a little too much! This old tree is getting to bea very lugubrious spot. I don't want to hear any more such messages. Ialmost wish I had never touched the wire. Strange! one reads such anannouncement in a newspaper very coolly;--why is it that I can't takeit coolly in a telegraphic despatch? We can read a thing withindifference which we hear spoken with a shudder,--such prisoners arewe to our senses! I have had enough of this telegraphing. I sha'n'tclose my eyes to-night, if I have any more of it.I had now fairly got my foot on the branch below, and was slippingmyself gradually down, when the wire began to ring like a horn, and inthe merriest of strains. I paused and listened. I could fancy thejoyful barking of dogs in accompaniment. Ah, surely, this is somesportsman,--"the hunter's call, to faun and dryad known." This smacksof the bright sunshine and the green woods and the yellow fields. Iwill stop and hear it.--It was just what I expected,--a jolly citizentelegraphing his country friend to meet him with his guns and dogs atsuch a place.And immediately afterwards, in much the same key, came a musical noteand a message babbling of green fields, from a painter:--"I shallleave town to-morrow. Meet me at Bullshornville at ten, A.M. Don'tforget to bring my field-easel, canvases, and the other traps."If there is more of this music, I said, I think I shall stay. I lovethe sportsmen and the artists, and am glad they are going to have agood time. The weather promises well for them.There was a little pause, and then a strain of perfect jubilation cameleaping along the wire, like the flying song of the bobolink overtracts of blowing clover and apple-blossoms. I expected something veryrare,--a strain of poetry at least. It was only this:--"Mr. Grimkins,Sir, we shall expect rooms for the bridal party at your hotel, on theside overlooking the lake, if possible. Yours, P. Simpkins."Ah, I said, that's all Greek to me,--poor, lonely bachelor that I am!I wonder, by the way, if they ever wrote their love-letters bytelegraph.--But what is this coming? I am clearly getting back to mynormal condition:--"Miss Polly Wogg wishes to say that she has beenunable to procure the silk for Mrs. Papillon for less than fivedollars a yard."--Nonsense! I'm not in the dry-goods, nor millinery,nor young-lady department.And here was another:--"I have found an excellent school for Adolphusin Birchville, near Mastersville Corners. Send him up without delay,with all the school-books you can find."And another,--important, very:--"I find that 'One touch of Naturemakes the whole world kin' is in 'Troilus and Cressida.' Don't sendthe MS. without this correction."But what's this, accompanied with a long, low whistle?--"The cars haverun off the track at Breakneck Hollow. Back your engine and wait forfurther orders."We are getting into the minor key again, I thought. Listen!--"Mr. S.died last night. You must be here to-morrow, if possible, at theopening of the will."Well, said I, I have had plenty of despatches, and have expendedenough sympathy, for one night. I have been very mysteriouslyaffected,--how, I can't exactly tell. But who will ever believe myevening's adventure? Who will not laugh at my pretended discovery?Even my cousin Moses will be incredulous. I shall be at least lookedupon as a _medium_, and so settled.And here allow me to remark,--Have you not observed how easily thingsapparently difficult and mysterious are arranged in the popularunderstanding by the use of certain stereotyped names applied to them?Only give a name to a wonder, or an unclassified phenomenon, or evenan unsound notion, and you instantly clear away all the fog ofmystery. Let an unprincipled fellow call his views Latitudinarianismor Longitudinarianism, he may, with a little adroitness, go for arespectable and consistent member of some sect. A filibuster may passcurrent under some such label as Political or TerritorialExtensionist;--the name is a long, decent overcoat for his shabbyideas. So when wonderful phenomena in the nervous system areobserved,--when tables are smashed by invisible hands,--when peoplesee ghosts through stone walls, and know what is passing in the heartof Africa,--how easily you unlock your wardrobe of terms and clap onthe back of every eccentric fact your ready-made phrase-coat,--AnimalMagnetism, Biology, Odic Force, Optical Illusion, Second Sight,Spirits, and what not! It is a wonderful labor-saving and faith-savingprocess. People say, "Oh, is that all?" and pass on complacently.There are such explanatory labels to be met with everywhere. They savea deal of trouble. All the shops keep these overcoats,--shopsecclesiastical, medical, juridical, professional, political, social.Now all I have to do is, not to go to the second-hand slop-shops forthe phrase-coat I need for my naked discovery, but look for someunfamiliar robe,--some name more _recherche_, learned, andtranscendental than my neighbors sport,--and then I shall pass muster.The classic togas seem to be the most imposing. The Germans, who weavetheir names out of their indigenous Saxon roots, are much too _naive_.I will get a Greek Lexicon and set about it this very night.After all, why should it be thought so improbable, in this age ofstrange phenomena, that the ideas transmitted through theelectro-magnetic wire may be communicated to the brain,--especiallywhen there exist certain abnormal or semi-abnormal conditions of thatbrain and its nerves? Is it not reasonable to suppose that allmagnetisms are one in essence? The singular experiences above relatedseem to hint at the truth of such a view. If it be true that certaindelicately-organized persons have the power of telling the characterof others, who are entire strangers to them, simply by holding intheir hands letters written by those strangers, is it not full as muchwithin the scope of belief that there are those who, under certainphysical conditions, may detect the purport of an electro-magneticmessage,--that message being sent by vibrations of the wire throughthe nerves to the brain? If all magnetisms are one in essence,--as Iam inclined to believe,--and if the nerves, the brain, and the mindare so swayed by what we term animal magnetism, why not allow for thestrong probability of their being also, under certain conditions,equally impressible by electro-magnetism? I put these questions toscientific men; and I do not see why they should be answered bysilence or ridicule, merely because the whole subject is veiled inmystery.It may be asked,--How can an electro-magnetic message be communicatedto the mind, without a knowledge of the alphabet used by thetelegraphers? This question may seem a poser to some minds. But Idon't see that it raises any grave difficulty. I answer the questionby asking another:--How can persons in the somnambulic state read withthe tops of their heads?Besides, I once had the telegraph alphabet explained to me by one ofthe wire-operators,--though I have forgotten it,--and it is possible,that, in my semi-mesmeric condition, the recollection revived, so thatI knew that such and such pulsations of the wire stood for such andsuch letters.But is there not a certain spiritual significance, also, in thesesingular experiences here related?We may safely lay down this doctrine,--a very old and much-thumbeddoctrine, but none the less true for all its dog-ears:--No man livesfor himself alone. He is related not only to the silent stars and thesinging-birds and the sunny landscape, but to every other human soul.You say, This should not be stated so sermonically, but symbolically.That is just what I have been doing in my narrative of the wires.It gives one a great idea of human communion,--this power of sendingthese spark-messages thousands of miles in a second. Far morepoetical, too,--is it not?--as well as more practical, than tyingbillets under the wings of carrier-pigeons. It is removing so muchtime and space out of the way,--those absorbents of spirits,--andbringing mind into close contact with mind. But when one can readthese messages without the aid of machinery, by merely touching thewires, how much greater does the symbol become!All mankind are one. As some philosophers express it,--one great mindincludes us all. But then, as it would never do for all minds to beliterally one, any more than it would for all magnetisms to beidentical in their modes of manifestation, or for all the rivers,creeks, and canals to flow together, so we have our natural barriersand channels, our _propriums_, as the Swedish seer has it,--and so welive and let live. We feel with others and think with others, but withstrict reservations. That evening among the wires, for instance,brought me into wonderful intimate contact with a few of the joys andsorrows of some of my fellow-beings; but an excess of such experienceswould interfere with our freedom and our happiness. It is ourself-hood, properly balanced, which constitutes our dignity, ourhumanity. A certain degree, and a very considerable degree ofinsulation is necessary, that individual life and mental equanimitymay go on.But there may be a degree of insulation which is unbecoming a memberof the human family. It may become brutish,--or it may amount to theridiculous. In Paris, there was an old lady, of uncertain age, wholived in the apartment beneath mine. I think I never saw her buttwice. She manifested her existence sometimes by complaining of theromping of the children overhead, who called her the "bonne femme."Why they gave her the name I don't know; for she seemed to have nohuman ties in the world, and wasted her affections on a privatemenagerie of parrots, canaries, and poodle-dogs. A few shocks of theelectric telegraph might have raised her out of her desert island, andgiven her some glimpses of the great continents of human love andsympathy.A man who lives for himself alone sits on a sort of insulated glassstool, with a _noli-me-tangere_ look at his fellow-men, and ashivering dread of some electric shock from contact with them. He is anon-conductor in relation to the great magnetic currents which runpulsing along the invisible wires that connect one heart with another.Preachers, philanthropists, and moralists are in the habit of sayingof such a person,--"How cold! how selfish! how unchristian!" Isometimes fancy a citizen of the planet Venus, that social star ofevening and morning, might say,--"How absurd!" What a figure he cutsthere, sitting in solitary state upon his glass tripod,--in the middleof a crowd of excited fellow-beings, hurried to and fro by theirpassions and sympathies,--like an awkward country-bumpkin caught inthe midst of a gay crowd of polkers and waltzers at a ball,--or anoyster bedded on a rock, with silver fishes playing rapid games ofhide and seek, love and hate, in the clear briny depths above andbeneath! If the angels ever look out of their sphere of intensespiritual realities to indulge in a laugh, methinks such a lonelytripod-sitter, cased over with his invulnerable, non-conducting cloakand hood,--shrinking, dodging, or bracing himself up on the defensive,as the crowd fans him with its rush or jostles up against him,--likethe man who fancied himself a teapot, and was forever warning peoplenot to come too near him,--might furnish a subject for a planetaryjoke not unworthy of translation into the language of our dim earth.One need not be a lonely bachelor, nor a lonely spinster, in order tolive alone. The loneliest are those who mingle with men bodily and yethave no contact with them spiritually. There is no desert solitudeequal to that of a crowded city where you have no sympathies. I mighthere quote Paris again, in illustration,--or, indeed, any foreigncity. A friend of mine had an _atelier_ once in the top of a house inthe Rue St. Honore. He knew not a soul in the house nor in theneighborhood. There was a German tailor below, who once made him apair of pantaloons,--so they were connected sartorically andpecuniarily, and, when they met, recognized one another: and there wasthe _concierge_ below, who knew when he came in and went out,--thatwas all. All day long the deafened roar of carts and carriages, andthe muffled cry of the _marchands des legumes_, were faintly heardfrom below. And in an adjoining room a female voice (my friend couldnever tell whether child's or woman's, for he never saw any one)overflowed in tones of endearment on some unresponding creature,--hecould never guess whether it was a baby, or a bird, or a cat, or adog, or a lizard, (the French have such pets sometimes,) or anenchanted prince, like that poor half-marble fellow in the "ArabianNights." In that garret the painter experienced for six months theperfection of Parisian solitude. Now I dare say he or I might havefound social sympathies, by hunting them up; but he didn't, and I daresay he was to blame, as I should be in the same situation,--and I amwilling to place myself in the same category with the menagerie-lovingold lady, above referred to, omitting the feathered and canine pets.As to my mesmerico-telegraphic discovery, it may pass for what it isworth. I shall submit it at least to my cousin Moses, as soon as hereturns from the South. People may believe it or not. People may sayit may be of practical use, or not. I shall overhaul my terminologies,and, with the "metaphysical aid" of my cousin, fit it with ascientific name which shall overtop all the _ologies_.Having dressed my new Fact in a respectable and scholarlike coat, Ishall let him take his chance with the judicious public,--and contentmyself, for the present, with making him a sort of humble _colporteur_of the valuable tract on Human Brotherhood of which I have herewithfurnished a few dry specimens.THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL.The company looked a little flustered one morning when I came in,--somuch so, that I inquired of my neighbor, the divinity-student, whathad been going on. It appears that the young fellow whom they callJohn had taken advantage of my being a little late (I having beenrather longer than usual dressing that morning) to circulate severalquestions involving a quibble or play upon words,--in short,containing that indignity to the human understanding, condemned in thepassages from the distinguished moralist of the last century and theillustrious historian of the present, which I cited on a formeroccasion, and known as a _pun_. After breakfast, one of the boardershanded me a small roll of paper containing some of the questions andtheir answers. I subjoin two or three of them, to show what a tendencythere is to frivolity and meaningless talk in young persons of acertain sort, when not restrained by the presence of more reflectivenatures.--It was asked, "Why tertian and quartan fevers were likecertain short-lived insects." Some interesting physiological relationwould be naturally suggested. The inquirer blushes to find that theanswer is in the paltry equivocation, that they _skip_ a day ortwo.--"Why an Englishman must go to the Continent to weaken his grogor punch." The answer proves to have no relation whatever to thetemperance-movement, as no better reason is given than thatisland--(or, as it is absurdly written, _ile and_) water won'tmix.--But when I came to the next question and its answer, I felt thatpatience ceased to be a virtue. "Why an onion is like a piano" is aquery that a person of sensibility would be slow to propose; but thatin an educated community an individual could be found to answer it inthese words,--"Because it smell odious," _quasi_, it's melodious,--isnot credible, but too true. I can show you the paper.Dear reader, I beg your pardon for repeating such things. I know mostconversations reported in books are altogether above such trivialdetails, but folly will come up at every table as surely as purslainand chickweed and sorrel will come up in gardens. This young fellowought to have talked philosophy, I know perfectly well; but hedidn't,--he made jokes.I am willing,--I said,--to exercise your ingenuity in a rational andcontemplative manner.--No, I do not proscribe certain forms ofphilosophical speculation which involve an approach to the absurd orthe ludicrous, such as you may find, for example, in the folio of theReverend Father Thomas Sanchez, in his famous tractate, "De SanctoMatrimonio." I will therefore turn this levity of yours to profit byreading you a rhymed problem, wrought out by my friend the Professor.THE DEACON'S MASTERPIECE: OR THE WONDERFUL "ONE-HOSS-SHAY."A LOGICAL STORY.  Have you heard of the wonderful one-hoss-shay,  That was built in such a logical way  It ran a hundred years to a day,  And then, of a sudden, it----ah, but stay,  I'll tell you what happened without delay,  Scaring the parson into fits,  Frightening people out of their wits,--  Have you ever heard of that, I say?  Seventeen hundred and fifty-five.  _Georgius Secundus_ was then alive,--  Snuffy old drone from the German hive!  That was the year when Lisbon-town  Saw the earth open and gulp her down,  And Braddock's army was done so brown,  Left without a scalp to its crown.  It was on the terrible Earthquake-day  That the Deacon finished the one-hoss-shay.  Now in building of chaises, I tell you what,  There is always _somewhere_, a weakest spot,--  In hub, tire, felloe, in spring or thill,  In panel, or crossbar, or floor, or sill,  In screw, bolt, thoroughbrace,--lurking still  Find it somewhere you must and will,--  Above or below, or within or without,--  And that's the reason, beyond a doubt,  A chaise _breaks down_, but doesn't _wear out_,  But the Deacon swore (as Deacons do,  With an "I dew vum," or an "I tell _yeou_,")  He would build one shay to beat the taown  'n' the keounty 'n' all the kentry raoun';  It should be so built that it _couldn'_ break daown:  --"Fur," said the Deacon, "'t's mighty plain  Thut the weakes' place mus' stan' the strain;  'n' the way t' fix it, uz I maintain,    Is only jest  To make that place uz strong uz the rest."  So the Deacon inquired of the village folk  Where he could find the strongest oak,  That couldn't be split nor bent nor broke,--  That was for spokes and floor and sills;  He sent for lancewood to make the thills;  The crossbars were ash, from the straightest trees;  The panels of white-wood, that cuts like cheese,  But lasts like iron for things like these;  The hubs of logs from the "Settler's ellum,"--  Last of its timber,--they couldn't sell 'em,--  Never an axe had seen their chips,  And the wedges flew from between their lips,  Their blunt ends frizzled like celery-tips;  Step and prop-iron, bolt and screw,  Spring, tire, axle, and linchpin too,  Steel of the finest, bright and blue;  Thoroughbrace bison-skin, thick and wide;  Boot, top, dasher, from tough old hide  Found in the pit when the tanner died.  That was the way he "put her through."--  "There!" said the Deacon, "naow she'll dew!"  Do! I tell you, I rather guess  She was a wonder, and nothing less!  Colts grew horses, beards turned gray,  Deacon and deaconess dropped away,  Children and grand-children--where were they?  But there stood the stout old one-hoss-shay  As fresh as on Lisbon-earthquake-day!  EIGHTEEN HUNDRED;--it came and found  The Deacon's Masterpiece strong and sound.  Eighteen hundred increased by ten;--  "Hahnsum kerridge" they called it then.  Eighteen hundred and twenty came;--  Running as usual; much the same.  Thirty and forty at last arrive,  And then come fifty, and FIFTY-FIVE.  Little of all we value here  Wakes on the morn of its hundredth year  Without both feeling and looking queer.  In fact, there's nothing that keeps its youth,  So far as I know, but a tree and truth.  (This is a moral that runs at large;  Take it.--You're welcome--No extra charge.)  FIRST OF NOVEMBER,--the Earthquake-day.--  There are traces of age in the one-hoss-shay,  A general flavor of mild decay,  But nothing local, as one may say.  There couldn't be,--for the Deacon's art  Had made it so like in every part  That there wasn't a chance for one to start.  For the wheels were just as strong as the thills,  And the floor was just as strong as the sills,  And the panels just as strong as the floor,  And the whippletree neither less nor more,  And the back-crossbar as strong as the fore,  And spring and axle and hub _encore_.  And yet, _as a whole_, it is past a doubt  In another hour it will be _worn out_!  First of November, 'Fifty-five!  This morning the parson takes a drive.  Now, small boys, get out of the way!  Here comes the wonderful one-hoss-shay,  Drawn by a rat-tailed, ewe-necked bay.  "Huddup!" said the parson.--Off went they.  The parson was working his Sunday's text,--  Had got to _fifthly_, and stopped perplexed  At what the--Moses--was coming next.  All at once the horse stood still,  Close by the meet'n'-house on the hill.  --First a shiver, and then a thrill,  Then something decidedly like a spill,--  And the parson was sitting upon a rock,  At half-past nine by the meet'n'-house-clock,--  Just the hour of the Earthquake-shock!  --What do you think the parson found,  When he got up and stared around?  The poor old chaise in a heap or mound,  As if it had been to the mill and ground!  You see, of course, if you're not a dunce,  How it went to pieces all at once,--  All at once, and nothing first,--  Just as bubbles do when they burst.  End of the wonderful one-hoss-shay.  Logic is logic. That's all I say.--I think there is one habit,--I said to our company a day or twoafterwards,--worse than that of punning. It is the gradualsubstitution of cant or flash terms for words which truly characterizetheir objects. I have known several very genteel idiots whose wholevocabulary had deliquesced into some half dozen expressions. Allthings fell into one of two great categories,--_fast_ or _slow_. Man'schief end was to be a _brick_. When the great calamities of lifeovertook their friends, these last were spoken of as being _a gooddeal cut up_. Nine-tenths of human existence were summed up in thesingle word, _bore_. These expressions come to be the algebraicsymbols of minds which have grown too weak or indolent todiscriminate. They are the blank checks of intellectualbankruptcy;--you may fill them up with what idea you like; it makes nodifference, for there are no funds in the treasury upon which they aredrawn. Colleges and good-for-nothing smoking-clubs are the placeswhere these conversational fungi spring up most luxuriantly. Don'tthink I undervalue the proper use and application of a cant word orphrase. It adds piquancy to conversation, as a mushroom does to asauce. But it is no better than a toadstool, odious to the sense andpoisonous to the intellect, when it spawns itself all over the talk ofmen and youths capable of talking, as it sometimes does. As we hearflash phraseology, it is commonly the dishwater from the washings ofEnglish dandyism, school-boy or full-grown, wrung out of athree-volume novel which had sopped it up, or decanted from thepictured urn of Mr. Verdant Green, and diluted to suit the provincialclimate.----The young fellow called John spoke up sharply and said, it was"rum" to hear me "pitchin' into fellers" for "goin' it in the slangline," when I used all the flash words myself just when I pleased.----I replied with my usual forbearance.--Certainly, to give up thealgebraic symbol, because _a_ or _b_ is often a cover for idealnihility, would be unwise. I have heard a child laboring to express acertain condition, involving a hitherto undescribed sensation, (as itsupposed,) all of which could have been sufficiently explained bythe participle--_bored_. I have seen a country-clergyman, with aone-story intellect and a one-horse vocabulary, who has consumed hisvaluable time (and mine) freely, in developing an opinion of abrother-minister's discourse which would have been abundantlycharacterized by a peach-down-lipped sophomore in the oneword--_slow_. Let us discriminate, and be shy of absoluteproscription. I am omniverbivorous by nature and training. Passing bysuch words as are poisonous, I can swallow most others, and chew suchas I cannot swallow.Dandies are not good for much, but they are good for something. Theyinvent or keep in circulation those conversational blank checks orcounters just spoken of, which intellectual capitalists may sometimesfind it worth their while to borrow of them. They are useful, too, inkeeping up the standard of dress, which, but for them, woulddeteriorate, and become, what some old fools would have it, a matterof convenience, and not of taste and art. Yes, I like dandies wellenough,--on one condition.----What is that, Sir?--said the divinity-student.----That they have pluck. I find that lies at the bottom of all truedandyism. A little boy dressed up very fine, who puts his finger inhis mouth and takes to crying, if other boys make fun of him, looksvery silly. But if he turns red in the face and knotty in the fists,and makes an example of the biggest of his assailants, throwing offhis fine Leghorn and his thickly-buttoned jacket, if necessary, toconsummate the act of justice, his small toggery takes on thesplendors of the crested helmet that frightened Astyanax. You rememberthat the Duke said his dandy officers were his best officers. The"Sunday blood," the super-superb sartorial equestrian of our annualFast-day, is not imposing or dangerous. But such fellows as Brummeland D'Orsay and Byron are not to be snubbed quite so easily. Look outfor "la main de fer sous le gant de velours" (which I printed inEnglish the other day without quotation-marks, thinking whether any_scarabaeus criticus_ would add this to his globe and roll in glorywith it into the newspapers,--which he didn't do it, in the charmingpleonasm of the London language, and therefore I claim the sole meritof exposing the same). A good many powerful and dangerous people havehad a decided dash of dandyism about them. There was Alcibiades, the"curled son of Clinias," an accomplished young man, but what would becalled a "swell" in these days. There was Aristoteles, a verydistinguished writer, of whom you have heard,--a philosopher, inshort, whom it took centuries to learn, centuries to unlearn, and isnow going to take a generation or more to learn over again. Regulardandy, he was. So was Marcus Antonius: and though he lost his game, heplayed for big stakes, and it wasn't his dandyism that spoiled hischance. Petrarca was not to be despised as a scholar or a poet, but hewas one of the same sort. So was Sir Humphrey Davy; so was LordPalmerston, formerly, if I am not forgetful. Yes,--a dandy is good forsomething as such; and dandies such as I was just speaking of haverocked this planet like a cradle,--aye, and left it swinging to thisday.--Still, if I were you, I wouldn't go to the tailor's, on thestrength of these remarks, and run up a long bill which will renderpockets a superfluity in your next suit. _Elegans "nascitur, nonfit._" A man is born a dandy, as he is born a poet. There are headsthat can't wear hats; there are necks that can't fit cravats; thereare jaws that can't fill out collars--(Willis touched this last pointin one of his earlier ambrotypes, if I remember rightly); there are_tournures_ nothing can humanize, and movements nothing can subdue tothe gracious suavity or elegant languor or stately serenity whichbelong to different styles of dandyism.We are forming an aristocracy, as you may observe, in thiscountry,--not a _gratia-Dei_, nor a _jure-divino_ one,--but a_de-facto_ upper stratum of being, which floats over the turbid wavesof common life as the iridescent film you may have seen spreading overthe water about our wharves,--very splendid, though its origin mayhave been tar, tallow, train-oil, or other such unctuous commodities.I say, then, we are forming an aristocracy; and, transitory as itsindividual life often is, it maintains itself tolerably, as a whole.Of course, money is its corner-stone. But now observe this. Money keptfor two or three generations transforms a race,--I don't mean merelyin manners and hereditary culture, but in blood and bone. Money buysair and sunshine, in which children grow up more kindly, of course,than in close, back streets; it buys country-places to give them happyand healthy summers, good nursing, good doctoring, and the best cutsof beef and mutton. When the spring-chickens come to market----I begyour pardon,--that is not what I was going to speak of. As the youngfemales of each successive season come on, the finest specimens amongthem, other things being equal, are apt to attract those who canafford the expensive luxury of beauty. The physical character of thenext generation rises in consequence. It is plain that certainfamilies have in this way acquired an elevated type of face andfigure, and that in a small circle of city-connections one maysometimes find models of both sexes which one of the rural countieswould find it hard to match from all its townships put together.Because there is a good deal of running down, of degeneration andwaste of life, among the richer classes, you must not overlook theequally obvious fact I have just spoken of,--which in one or twogenerations more will be, I think, much more patent than just now.The weak point in our chryso-aristocracy is the same I have alluded toin connection with cheap dandyism. Its thorough manhood, itshigh-caste gallantry, are not so manifest as the plate-glass of itswindows and the more or less legitimate heraldry of its coach-panels.It is very curious to observe of how small account military folks areheld among our Northern people. Our young men must gild their spurs,but they need not win them. The equal division of property keeps theyounger sons of rich people above the necessity of military service.Thus the army loses an element of refinement, and the moneyed upperclass forgets what it is to count heroism among its virtues. Still Idon't believe in any aristocracy without pluck as its backbone. Oursmay show it when the time comes, if it ever does come.----These United States furnish the greatest market for intellectual_green fruit_ of all the places in the world. I think so, at any rate.The demand for intellectual labor is so enormous and the market so farfrom nice, that young talent is apt to fare like unripegooseberries--get plucked to make a fool of. Think of a country whichbuys eighty thousand copies of the "Proverbial Philosophy," while theauthor's admiring countrymen have been buying twelve thousand! How canone let his fruit hang in the sun until it gets fully ripe, whilethere are eighty thousand such hungry mouths ready to swallow it andproclaim its praises? Consequently, there never was such a collectionof crude pippins and half-grown windfalls as our native literaturedisplays among its fruits. There are literary green-groceries at everycorner, which will buy anything, from a button-pear to a pine-apple.It takes a long apprenticeship to train a whole people to reading andwriting. The temptation of money and fame is too great for youngpeople. Do I not remember that glorious moment when the late Mr. ----we won't say who,--editor of the ---- we won't say what, offered methe sum of fifty cents _per_ double-columned quarto page for shakingmy young boughs over his foolscap apron? Was it not an intoxicatingvision of gold and glory? I should doubtless have revelled in itswealth and splendor, but for learning the fact that the _fifty cents_was to be considered a rhetorical embellishment, and by no means aliteral expression of past fact or present intention.----Beware of making your moral staple consist of the negativevirtues. It is good to abstain, and teach others to abstain, from allthat is sinful or hurtful. But making a business of it leads toemaciation of character, unless one feeds largely also on the morenutritious diet of active sympathetic benevolence.----I don't believe one word of what you are saying,--spoke up theangular female in black bombazine.I am sorry you disbelieve it, Madam,--I said, and added softly to mynext neighbor,--but you prove it.The young fellow sitting near me winked; and the divinity-studentsaid, in an undertone,--_Optime dictum_.Your talking Latin,--said I,--reminds me of an odd trick of one of myold tutors. He read so much of that language, that his English halfturned into it. He got caught in town, one hot summer, in pretty closequarters, and wrote, or began to write, a series of city pastorals.Eclogues he called them, and meant to have published them bysubscription. I remember some of his verses, if you want to hearthem.--You, Sir, (addressing myself to the divinity-student,) and allsuch as have been through college, or, what is the same thing,received an honorary degree, will understand them without adictionary. The old man had a great deal to say about "aestivation,"as he called it, in opposition, as one might say, to _hibernation_.Intramural festivation, or town-life in summer, he would say, is apeculiar form of suspended existence or semi-asphyxia. One wakes upfrom it about the beginning of the last week in September. This iswhat I remember of his poem:--AESTIVATION._An Unpublished Poem, by my late Latin Tutor._  In candent ire the solar splendor flames;  The foles, languescent, pend from arid rances;  His humid front the cive, anheling, wipes,  And dreams of erring on ventiferous ripes.  How dulce to vive occult to mortal eyes,  Dorm on the herb with none to supervise,  Carp the suave berries from the crescent vine,  And bibe the flow from longicaudate kine!  To me, alas! no verdurous visions come,  Save yon exigous pool's conferva-scum,--  No concave vast repeats the tender hue  That laves my milk-jug with celestial blue!  Me wretched! Let me curr to quercine shades!  Effund your albid hausts, lactiferous maids!  Oh, might I vole to some umbrageous clump,--  Depart,--be off,--excede,--evade,--crump!--I have lived by the sea-shore and by the mountains.--No, I am notgoing to say which is best. The one where your place is is the bestfor you. But this difference there is: you can domesticate mountains,but the sea is _ferae naturae_. You may have a hut, or know the ownerof one, on the mountain-side; you see a light half-way up its ascentin the evening, and you know there is a home, and you might share it.You have noted certain trees, perhaps; you know the particular zonewhere the hemlocks look so black in October, when the maples andbeeches have faded. All its reliefs and intaglios have electrotypedthemselves in the medallions that hang round the walls of yourmemory's chamber.--The sea remembers nothing. It is feline. It licksyour feet,--its huge flanks purr very pleasantly for you; but it willcrack your bones and eat you, for all that, and wipe the crimsonedfoam from its jaws as if nothing had happened. The mountains givetheir lost children berries and water; the sea mocks their thirst andlets them die. The mountains have a grand, stupid, lovabletranquillity; the sea has a fascinating, treacherous intelligence. Themountains lie about like huge ruminants, their broad backs awful tolook upon, but safe to handle. The sea smooths its silver scales untilyou cannot see their joints,--but their shining is that of a snake'sbelly, after all.--In deeper suggestiveness I find as great adifference. The mountains dwarf mankind and foreshorten the processionof its long generations. The sea drowns out humanity and time; it hasno sympathy with either; for it belongs to eternity, and of that itsings its monotonous song forever and ever.Yet I should love to have a little box by the sea-shore. I should loveto gaze out on the wild feline element from a front window of my own,just as I should love to look on a caged panther, and see it stretchits shining length, and then curl over and lap its smooth sides, andby-and-by begin to lash itself into rage and show its white teeth andspring at its bars, and howl the cry of its mad, but, to me, harmlessfury.--And then,--to look at it with that inward eye,--who does notlove to shuffle off time and its concerns, at intervals,--to forgetwho is President and who is Governor, what race he belongs to, whatlanguage he speaks, which golden-headed nail of the firmament hisparticular planetary system is hung upon, and listen to the greatliquid metronome as it beats its solemn measure, steadily swingingwhen the solo or duet of human life began, and to swing just assteadily after the human chorus has died out and man is a fossil onits shores?--What should decide one, in choosing a summerresidence?--Constitution, first of all. How much snow could you meltin an hour, if you were planted in a hogshead of it? Comfort isessential to enjoyment. All sensitive people should remember thatpersons in easy circumstances suffer much more from cold insummer--that is, the warm half of the year--than in winter, or theother half. You must cut your climate to your constitution, as much asyour clothing to your shape. After this, consult your taste andconvenience. But if you would be happy in Berkshire, you must carrymountains in your brain; and if you would enjoy Nahant, you must havean ocean in your soul. Nature plays at dominos with you; you mustmatch her piece, or she will never give it up to you.----The schoolmistress said, in rather a mischievous way, that she wasafraid some minds or souls would be a little crowded, if they took inthe Rocky Mountains or the Atlantic.Have you ever read the little book called "The Stars and theEarth?"--said I.--Have you seen the Declaration of Independencephotographed in a surface that a fly's foot would cover? The forms orconditions of Time and Space, as Kant will tell you, are nothing inthemselves,--only our way of looking at things. You are right, Ithink, however, in recognizing the category of Space as being quite asapplicable to minds as to the outer world. Every man of reflection isvaguely conscious of an imperfectly-defined circle which is drawnabout his intellect. He has a perfectly clear sense that the fragmentsof his intellectual circle include the curves of many other minds ofwhich he is cognizant. He often recognizes those as manifestlyconcentric with his own, but of less radius. On the other hand, whenwe find a portion of an arc outside of our own, we say it _intersects_ours, but are very slow to confess or to see that it _circumscribes_it. Every now and then a man's mind is stretched by a new idea orsensation, and never shrinks back to its former dimensions. Afterlooking at the Alps, I felt that my mind had been stretched beyond thelimits of its elasticity, and fitted so loosely on my old ideas ofspace that I had to spread these to fit it.----If I thought I should ever see the Alps!--said the schoolmistress.Perhaps you will, some time or other,--I said.It is not very likely,--she answered.--I have had one or twoopportunities, but I had rather be anything than governess in a richfamily.Proud, too, you little soft-voiced woman! Well, I can't say I like youany the worse for it. How long will schoolkeeping take to kill you? Isit possible the poor thing works with her needle, too? I don't likethose marks on the side of her forefinger._Tableau_. Chamouni. Mont Blanc in full view. Figures in theforeground; two of them standing apart; one of them a gentlemanof----oh,--ah,--yes! the other a lady in a white cashmere, leaning onhis shoulder.--The ingenuous reader will understand that this was aninternal, private, personal, subjective diorama, seen for one instanton the background of my own consciousness, and abolished into blacknon-entity by the first question which recalled me to actual life, assuddenly as if one of those iron shop-blinds (which I always pass atdusk with a shiver, expecting to stumble over some poor but honestshop-boy's head, just taken off by its sudden and unexpected descent,and left outside upon the sidewalk) had come down "by the run."----Should you like to hear what moderate wishes life brings one to atlast? I used to be very ambitious,--wasteful, extravagant, andluxurious in all my fancies. Head too much in the "Arabian Nights."Must have the lamp,--couldn't do without the ring. Exercise everymorning on the brazen horse. Plump down into castles as full of littlemilk-white princesses as a nest is of young sparrows. All love medearly at once.--Charming idea of life, but too high-colored for thereality. I have outgrown all this; my tastes have become exceedinglyprimitive,--almost, perhaps, ascetic. We carry happiness into ourcondition, but must not hope to find it there. I think you will bewilling to hear some lines which embody the subdued and limiteddesires of my maturity.CONTENTMENT.  "Man wants but little here below."  Little I ask; my wants are few;    I only wish a hut of stone,  (A _very plain_ brown stone will do,)    That I may call my own:--  And close at hand is such a one,  In yonder street that fronts the sun.  Plain food is quite enough for me;    Three courses are as good as ten;--  If Nature can subsist on three,        Thank Heaven for three. Amen!  I always thought cold victual nice;--  My _choice_ would be vanilla-ice.  I care not much for gold or land;--    Give me a mortgage here and there,--  Some good bank-stock,--some note of hand,        Or trifling railroad share;--  I only ask that Fortune send  A _little_ more than I shall spend.  Honors are silly toys, I know,    And titles are but empty names;--  I would, _perhaps_, be Plenipo,--        But only near St. James;--  I'm very sure I should not care  To fill our Gubernator's chair.  Jewels are baubles; 'tis a sin    To care for such unfruitful things;--  One good-sized diamond in a pin,--        Some, _not so large_, in rings,--  A ruby, and a pearl, or so,  Will do for me;--I laugh at show.  My dame should dress in cheap attire;    (Good, heavy silks are never dear;)--  I own perhaps I _might_ desire        Some shawls of true cashmere,--  Some marrowy crapes of China silk,  Like wrinkled skins on scalded milk.  I would not have the horse I drive    So fast that folks must stop and stare;  An easy gait--two, forty-five--        Suits me; I do not care;--  Perhaps, for just a _single spurt_,  Some seconds less would do no hurt.  Of pictures, I should like to own    Titians and Raphaels three or four,--  I love so much their style and tone,--        One Turner, and no more  (A landscape,--foreground golden dirt;  The sunshine painted with a squirt).  Of books but few,--some fifty score    For daily use, and bound for wear;  The rest upon an upper floor;--        Some _little_ luxury _there_  Of red morocco's gilded gleam,  And vellum rich as country cream.  Busts, cameos, gems,--such things as these,    Which others often show for pride,  _I_ value for their power to please,        And selfish churls deride;--  _One_ Stradivarius, I confess,  _Two_ Meerschaums, I would fain possess.  Wealth's wasteful tricks I will not learn,    Nor ape the glittering upstart fool;--  Shall not carved tables serve my turn,        But _all_ must be of buhl?  Give grasping pomp its double share,--  I ask but _one_ recumbent chair.  Thus humble let me live and die,    Nor long for Midas' golden touch;  If Heaven more generous gifts deny,        I shall not miss them _much_.--  Too grateful for the blessing lent  Of simple tastes and mind content!MY LAST WALK WITH THE SCHOOLMISTRESS.(_A Parenthesis_.)I can't say just how many walks she and I had taken together beforethis one. I found the effect of going out every morning was decidedlyfavorable on her health. Two pleasing dimples, the places for whichwere just marked when she came, played, shadowy, in her fresheningcheeks when she smiled and nodded good-morning to me from theschoolhouse-steps.I am afraid I did the greater part of the talking. At any rate, if Ishould try to report all that I said during the first half-dozen walkswe took together, I fear that I might receive a gentle hint from myfriends the publishers, that a separate volume, at my own risk andexpense, would be the proper method of bringing them before thepublic.--I would have a woman as true as Death. At the first real lie whichworks from the heart outward, she should be tenderly chloroformed intoa better world, where she can have an angel for a governess, and feedon strange fruits which will make her all over again, even to herbones and marrow.--Whether gifted with the accident of beauty or not,she should have been moulded in the rose-red clay of Love, before thebreath of life made a moving mortal of her. Love-capacity is acongenital endowment; and I think, after a while, one gets to know thewarm-hued natures it belongs to from the pretty pipe-clay counterfeitsof it.--Proud she may be, in the sense of respecting herself; butpride, in the sense of contemning others less gifted than herself,deserves the two lowest circles of a vulgar woman's Inferno, where thepunishments are Small-pox and Bankruptcy.--She who nips off the end ofa brittle courtesy, as one breaks the tip of an icicle, to bestow uponthose whom she ought cordially and kindly to recognize, proclaims thefact that she comes not merely of low blood, but of bad blood.Consciousness of unquestioned position makes people gracious in propermeasure to all; but if a woman puts on airs with her real equals, shehas something about herself or her family she is ashamed of, or oughtto be. Middle, and more than middle-aged people, who know familyhistories, generally see through it. An official of standing was rudeto me once. Oh, that is the maternal grandfather,--said a wise oldfriend to me,--he was a boor.--Better too few words, from the woman welove, than too many: while she is silent, Nature is working for her;while she talks, she is working for herself.--Love is sparinglysoluble in the words of men; therefore they speak much of it; but onesyllable of woman's speech can dissolve more of it than a man's heartcan hold.--Whether I said any or all of these things to the schoolmistress, ornot,--whether I stole them out of Lord Bacon,--whether I cribbed themfrom Balzac,--whether I dipped them from the ocean of Tupperianwisdom,--or whether I have just found them in my head, laid there bythat solemn fowl, Experience, (who, according to my observation,cackles oftener than she drops real live eggs,) I cannot say. Wise menhave said more foolish things,--and foolish men, I don't doubt, havesaid as wise things. Anyhow, the schoolmistress and I had pleasantwalks and long talks, all of which I do not feel bound to report.--You are a stranger to me, Ma'am.--I don't doubt you would like toknow all I said to the schoolmistress.--I sha'n't do it;--I had ratherget the publishers to return the money you have invested in this.Besides, I have forgotten a good deal of it. I shall tell only what Ilike of what I remember.--My idea was, in the first place, to search out the picturesque spotswhich the city affords a sight of, to those who have eyes. I know agood many, and it was a pleasure to look at them in company with myyoung friend. There were the shrubs and flowers in the Franklin-Placefront-yards or borders; Commerce is just putting his granite foot uponthem. Then there are certain small seraglio-gardens, into which onecan get a peep through the crevices of high fences,--one in MyrtleStreet, or backing on it,--here and there one at the North and SouthEnds. Then the great elms in Essex Street. Then the statelyhorse-chestnuts in that vacant lot in Chambers Street, which holdtheir outspread hands over your head, (as I said in my poem the otherday,) and look as if they were whispering, "May grace, mercy, andpeace be with you!"--and the rest of that benediction. Nay, there arecertain patches of ground, which, having lain neglected for a time,Nature, who always has her pockets full of seeds, and holes in all herpockets, has covered with hungry plebeian growths, which fight forlife with each other, until some of them get broad-leaved andsucculent, and you have a coarse vegetable tapestry which Raphaelwould not have disdained to spread over the foreground of hismasterpiece. The Professor pretends that he found such a one inCharles Street, which, in its dare-devil impudence of rough-and-tumblevegetation, beat the pretty-behaved flower-beds of the Public Gardenas ignominiously as a group of young tatterdemalions playingpitch-and-toss beats a row of Sunday-school-boys with their teacher attheir head.But then the Professor has one of his burrows in that region, and putseverything in high colors relating to it. That is his way abouteverything.--I hold any man cheap,--he said,--of whom nothing strongercan be uttered than that all his geese are swans.----How is that,Professor?--said I;--I should have set you down for one of thatsort.--Sir,--said he,--I am proud to say, that Nature has so farenriched me, that I cannot own so much as a _duck_ without seeing init as pretty a swan as ever swam the basin in the garden of theLuxembourg. And the Professor showed the whites of his eyes devoutly,like one returning thanks after a dinner of many courses.I don't know anything sweeter than this leaking in of Nature throughall the cracks in the walls and floors of cities. You heap up amillion tons of hewn rocks on a square mile or two of earth which wasgreen once. The trees look down from the hill-sides and ask eachother, as they stand on tiptoe,--"What are these people about?" Andthe small herbs at their feet look up and whisper back,--"We will goand see." So the small herbs pack themselves up in the least possiblebundles, and wait until the wind steals to them at night andwhispers,--"Come with me." Then they go softly with it into the greatcity,--one to a cleft in the pavement, one to a spout on the roof, oneto a seam in the marbles over a rich gentleman's bones, and one to thegrave without a stone where nothing but a man is buried,--and therethey grow, looking down on the generations of men from mouldy roofs,looking up from between the less-trodden pavements, looking outthrough iron cemetery-railings. Listen to them, when there is only alight breath stirring, and you will hear them saying to eachother,--"Wait awhile!" The words run along the telegraph of thosenarrow green lines that border the roads leading from the city, untilthey reach the slope of the hills, and the trees repeat in low murmursto each other,--"Wait awhile!" By-and-by the flow of life in thestreets ebbs, and the old leafy inhabitants--the smaller tribes alwaysin front--saunter in, one by one, very careless seemingly, but verytenacious, until they swarm so that the great stones gape from eachother with the crowding of their roots, and the feldspar begins to bepicked out of the granite to find them food. At last the trees take uptheir solemn line of march, and never rest until they have encamped inthe market-place. Wait long enough and you will find an old doting oakhugging a huge worn block in its yellow underground arms; that was thecorner-stone of the State-House. Oh, so patient she is, thisimperturbable Nature!--Let us cry!--But all this has nothing to do with my walks and talks with theschoolmistress. I did not say that I would not tell you somethingabout them. Let me alone, and I shall talk to you more than I oughtto, probably. We never tell our secrets to people that pump for them.Books we talked about, and education. It was her duty to knowsomething of these, and of course she did. Perhaps I was somewhat morelearned than she, but I found that the difference between her readingand mine was like that of a man's and a woman's dusting a library. Theman flaps about with a bunch of feathers; the woman goes to worksoftly with a cloth. She does not raise half the dust, nor fill herown eyes and mouth with it,--but she goes into all the corners, andattends to the leaves as much as the covers.--Books are the _negative_pictures of thought, and the more sensitive the mind that receivestheir images, the more nicely the finest lines are reproduced. Awoman, (of the right kind,) reading after a man, follows him as Ruthfollowed the reapers of Boaz, and her gleanings are often the finestof the wheat.But it was in talking of Life that we came most nearly together. Ithought I knew something about that,--that I could speak or writeabout it somewhat to the purpose.To take up this fluid earthly being of ours as a sponge sucks upwater,--to be steeped and soaked in its realities as a hide fills itspores lying seven years in a tan-pit,--to have winnowed every wave ofit as a mill-wheel works up the stream that runs through the flumeupon its float-boards,--to have curled up in the keenest spasms andflattened out in the laxest languors of this breathing-sickness, whichkeeps certain parcels of matter uneasy for three or four scoreyears,--to have fought all the devils and clasped all the angels ofits delirium,--and then, just at the point when the white-hot passionshave cooled down to cherry-red, plunge our experience into theice-cold stream of some human language or other, one might think wouldend in a rhapsody with something of spring and temper in it. All thisI thought my power and province.The schoolmistress had tried life, too. Once in a while one meets witha single soul greater than all the living pageant that passes beforeit. As the pale astronomer sits in his study with sunken eyes and thinfingers, and weighs Uranus or Neptune as in a balance, so there aremeek, slight women who have weighed all that this planetary life canoffer, and hold it like a bauble in the palm of their slender hands.This was one of them. Fortune had left her, sorrow had baptized her;the routine of labor and the loneliness of almost friendless city-lifewere before her. Yet, as I looked upon her tranquil face, graduallyregaining a cheerfulness that was often sprightly, as she becameinterested in the various matters we talked about and places wevisited, I saw that eye and lip and every shifting lineament were madefor love,--unconscious of their sweet office as yet, and meeting thecold aspect of Duty with the natural graces which were meant for thereward of nothing less than the Great Passion.----I never spoke one word of love to the schoolmistress in the courseof these pleasant walks. It seemed to me that we talked of everythingbut love on that particular morning. There was, perhaps, a little moretimidity and hesitancy on my part than I have commonly shown among ourpeople at the boarding-house. In fact, I considered myself the masterat the breakfast-table; but, somehow, I could not command myself justthen so well as usual. The truth is, I had secured a passage toLiverpool in the steamer which was to leave at noon,--with thecondition, however, of being released in case circumstances occurredto detain me. The schoolmistress knew nothing about all this, ofcourse, as yet.It was on the Common that we were walking. The _mall_, or boulevard ofour Common, you know, has various branches leading from it indifferent directions. One of these runs downward from opposite JoyStreet southward across the whole length of the Common to BoylstonStreet. We called it the long path, and were fond of it.I felt very weak indeed (though of a tolerably robust habit) as wecame opposite the head of this path on that morning. I think I triedto speak twice without making myself distinctly audible. At last I gotout the question,----Will you take the long path with me?--Certainly,--said the schoolmistress,--with much pleasure.----Think,--Isaid,--before you answer; if you take the long path with me now, Ishall interpret it that we are to part no more!----The schoolmistressstepped back with a sudden movement, as if an arrow had struck her.One of the long granite blocks used as seats was hard by,--the one youmay still see close by the Gingko-tree.----Pray, sit down,--Isaid.----No, no,--she answered, softly,--I will walk the _long path_with you!----The old gentleman who sits opposite met us walking, arm in arm,about the middle of the long path, and said, very charmingly,--"Goodmorning, my dears!"LITERARY NOTICES._The Life of John Fitch, the Inventor of the Steamboat_. By THOMPSONWESTCOTT. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co.What would not honest Sancho have given for a good biography of theman who invented sleep? And will not the adventurous pleasure-tourist,who has been jarred, jammed, roasted, coddled, and suffocated in arailroad-car for a whole night, with two days to sandwich it, on beingdeposited in an airy stateroom for the last two hundred miles of hisjourney, think the man who invented the steamboat deserving of a"first-rate" life? We well remember the time when nobody suspectedthat person, whoever he might be,--and nobody much cared who hewas,--of any relationship to the individual whose memory Sanchoblessed, so great was the churning in the palaces that then floated.But in our present boats this unpalace-like operation has been solocalized and mollified as to escape the notice of all but thegreenest and most inquisitive passengers. And now that we find theluxury of travelling by water actually superior to that of staying athome on land, we begin to feel a budding veneration for the man whofirst found out that steam could be substituted, with such marvellousadvantage, for helpless dependence on the wind and miserable tuggingat oars and setting-poles. Who was he? What circumstances conspired toshape his life and project it with so notable an aim? How did he look,act, think, on all matters of human concernment? Here comes a book,assuming in its title that one John Fitch, of whom his generationseems not to have thought enough to paint his portrait, was theinventor of the steamboat. It professes to be "The Life of JohnFitch"; but we are sorry to say it is rather a documentary argument toprove that he was "the inventor of the steamboat." As an argument, itis both needless and needlessly strong. We already knew to a certaintythat nobody could present a better claim to that honor than JohnFitch. True, the _idea_ did not wait for him. The engine could nothave been working a hundred years in the world without giving birth tothat. But till Watt invented it anew in 1782, by admitting the steamalternately at both ends of the cylinder, it was too awkward andclumsy to become a practical navigator. Moreover, though it could pumpadmirably, it had not been taught to turn a crank. The French assert,that experiments in steam-propulsion were made on the Seine, by CountAuxiron and Perrier, in 1774, and on the Saone, by De Jouffroy, in1782; but we know they led to no practical results, and the knowledgeof them probably did not, for some years, travel beyond the limits ofthe French language. There is no satisfactory evidence that a boat wasever moved by steam, within the boundaries of Anglo-Saxondom, beforeJohn Fitch did it, on the 27th of July, 1786. His successful and everyway brilliant experiment on that occasion led directly to practicalresults,--to wit, the formation of a company, embracing some of theforemost men of Philadelphia, which built a small steam-packet for theconveyance of passengers, and ran it during three summers, ending withthat of 1790. The company then failed, and broke poor Fitch's heart,simply because the investment had not thus far proved lucrative, andthey were unwilling to make the further advances requisite to carryout his moderate and reasonable plans. The only person who everclaimed, in English, to have made a steamboat experiment before Fitch,was James Rumsey, of Virginia, who, in 1788, published some testimonyto show that he had done it as early as April, 1786, that he hadbroached the idea, _confidentially_, two years earlier, and that Fitch_might_ have received it from one who violated his confidence. Fitchpromptly annihilated these pretences by a pamphlet, a reprint of whichmaybe found in the Patent-Office Report for 1850. This, and acontribution to Sparks's "American Biography," by Col. CharlesWhittlesey, of Ohio, seem quite sufficient to establish the historicalfact that John Fitch was the father of steam-navigation, whoever mayhave been its prophets. Though the infant, with the royal blood ofboth Neptune and Pluto in its veins, and a brand-new empire waiting tocrown it, fell into a seventeen years' swoon, during which Fitch died,and the public at large forgot all that he had ever said or done, itslife did not become extinct. It was not created, but revived, byFulton, aided by the refreshing effusion of Chancellor Livingston'smoney. We did not need a new book to make us more certain of thesefacts, but we did need a more thorough biography of John Fitch, and,with great respect for the industry and faithfulness of Mr. Westcott,it is our opinion that we do still. He has demonstrated that thematerials for such a work are abundant, and a glance at the mortalcareer of Fitch will show him to be an uncommonly interesting subject.John Fitch was born in Windsor, Connecticut, in 1743. At the age offive, while his father was absent from home, courting his stepmother,he heroically extinguished a fire of blazing flax, which wouldotherwise have consumed the house, and while he was smarting from hisburns was cruelly beaten by an elder brother, who misapprehended thecase of the little boy, very much as the world did that of the man hebecame. The domestic discipline he encountered under the paternal roofwas of the severest New England pattern of those days, and between itstheology and its economy he grew out of shape, like a thrifty pumpkinbetween two rocks. He loved to learn, but had few books and littleschooling. His taste tended to mechanism, and he was apprenticed to astingy clock-maker, who obliged him to work on his farm and kept himignorant of his trade. Getting his liberty at last, he set upbrass-founding, on a capital of twenty shillings, and made money atit. Then he went into the manufacture of potash, in which he was lesssuccessful. He married a wife who proved more caustic than the potashand more than a match for his patience. He settled his affairs so asto leave her all his little property in the most manageable shape, andleft her with two children, to seek a separate fortune in the wideworld. The war of the Revolution found him at Trenton, New Jersey, aman of some substance, acquired as a silversmith and peddler of silverand brass sleeve-buttons of his own manufacture. It made him anofficer and then an armorer in the Continental service. As afabricator of patriotic weapons, he incurred the displeasure of hisMethodist brethren by working on the Sabbath, and lost his orthodoxyin his disgust at their rebukes. Towards the close of the Revolution,getting poor in fact by getting rich in Continental money, heendeavored to save himself by investing in Virginia land-warrants,went to Kentucky as a surveyor, and became possessed of sixteenhundred acres of that wilderness. On a second expedition down theOhio, early in 1782, he fell into the hands of the savages, in themost melodramatic style, was led captive through the vast forests andswamps to Detroit, had a very characteristic and remarkableprison-experience under British authority at Prison Island, wasexchanged, and by a sea-voyage reached his home in Bucks County,Pennsylvania, at the close of the same year. Immediately after theestablishment of peace, he formed a company to speculate in Ohiolands, and made extensive surveys for the purpose of forestalling thebest locations. Mr. Westcott's book confuses this portion of hischronology by misprinting two or three dates, on the 113th page. Thehopeful game was spoiled by unexpected measures of the Confederatedgovernment; but Fitch's explorations had deeply impressed him with thesublime character of the Western rivers, and when, in April, 1785, thethought first struck him that steam could easily make them navigableupwards as well as downwards, he cared no more for lands. He hadnoticed the mechanical power of steam, but had never seen an engine,and did not know that one existed out of his own brain. This is theless wonderful, seeing there were only three then in America, and hisscience extended only to arithmetic. When his minister showed him adrawing of Newcomen's engine, in "Martin's Philosophy," he waschagrined to find that his invention had been anticipated in regard tothe mode of producing the power, but he was confirmed in his belief ofits availability for navigation. With no better resources than ablacksmith's shop could furnish, he set himself at work to make asteam-engine to test his theory. His success is one of those wondersof human ingenuity struggling with difficulties, moral, financial, andphysical combined, which deserve both a Homer and a Macaulay tocelebrate and record them. He was supposed by most people, and almostby himself, to have gone crazy. If anything, at this day, is moreincredible than the feat which he accomplished, it is the derisionwith which the public viewed his labors, decried his success, andsneered at the rags which betokened the honesty of his poverty. Toevery one who had brains capable of logic, he had demonstrated thefeasibility of his visions. But no amount of even physicaldemonstration, then possible, could bring out the funds requisite topecuniary profit, against the head-wind of public scorn. It whistleddown his high hopes of fortune. At last, dropping the file and thehammer, he took the pen, determined, that, if others must get rich byhis invention, he would at least save for himself the fame of it. Theresult of his literary labors was an autobiography of great franknessand detail, extending to several hundred pages, and embracing almostevery conceivable violation of standard English orthography, withwhich he seems to have had very little acquaintance or sympathy. Itwas placed under seal in the Philadelphia Library, not to be openedfor thirty years. At the expiration of that period, in 1823, the sealwas broken, and the quaint old manuscript, with the stamp of honesttruth on every word, stood ready to reveal what the world is but justbeginning to "want to know" about John Fitch. He afterwards went toEurope to promote his steamboat interests,--to little purpose,--wandered about a few years, settled in Bardstown, Kentucky,made a model steamboat with a brass engine, drowned disappointment inthe drink of that country, and at last departed by his own will, twoyears before the close of the last century. A life so full of truththat is stranger than fiction ought not to be treated in theDry-as-dust style, quite so largely as Mr. Westcott has done it.       *       *       *       *       *_Life Beneath the Waters; or, The Aquarium in America_. Illustrated byPlates and Wood-Cuts drawn from Life. By ARTHUR M. EDWARDS. New York:1858.This book has appeared since the notice in our July number of twoEnglish works on the Aquarium. Like so many books by which ourliterature is discredited, it is a work got up hastily to meet apublic demand, and is deficient in method, thoroughness, and accuracy.There is much repetition in it, and the observations of its authorseem to have been limited to the waters around New York, and to haveextended over but a short period. In spite of these and other minordefects, it may be recommended as containing much useful informationfor those just beginning an aquarium and forming an acquaintance withthe sea.We trust that a misprint in our former notice has not broughtdisappointment to any of our readers, by leading them to expose theiraquaria to too much sunshine; for the sunshine should be "_not_enough" (and not, as it was printed, "_hot_ enough") "to raise thewater to a temperature above that of the outer air."       *       *       *       *       *_The Exiles of Florida: or the Crimes committed by our Governmentagainst the Maroons, who fled from South Carolina and other SlaveStates, seeking Protection under Spanish Laws_. By JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS.Columbus, Ohio: Follett, Foster, & Co. 1858.A cruel story this, Mr. Giddings tells us. Too cruel, but too true. Itis full of pathetic and tragic interest, and melts and stirs the heartat once with pity for the sufferers, and with anger, that sins not, attheir mean and ruthless oppressors. Every American citizen should readit; for it is an indictment which recites crimes which have beencommitted in his name, perpetrated by troops and officials in hisservice, and all done at his expense. The whole nation is responsibleat the bar of the world and before the tribunal of posterity for theseatrocities, devised by members of its Cabinet and its Congress,directed by its Presidents, and executed by its armies and its courts.The cruelties of Alva in the Netherlands, which make the pen of Motleyglow as with fire as he tells them, the _dragonnades_ which scorchedover the fairest regions of France after the Revocation of the Edictof Nantes, have a certain excuse, as being instigated by a sincere,though misguided religious zeal. For Philip II. and Louis XIV. had, atleast, a fanatical belief that they were doing God service by thoseholocausts of his children; while no motive inspired these massacres,tortures, and banishments, but the most sordid rapacity and avarice,the lowest and basest passions of the human breast.And so carefully has the truth of this story been covered up withlies, that, probably, very few indeed of the people of the Free Stateshave any just idea of the origin, character, and purposes of theSeminole Wars, or of the character of the race against which they werewaged. And yet there is no episode in American history more full ofromantic interest, of heroic struggles, and of moving griefs. We havebeen taught to believe that these wars were provoked by incursions ofthe savages of Florida on the frontier, and, if the truth could not beconcealed, that an incidental motive of our war of exterminationagainst them was to be found in the sanctuary which the fugitiveslaves of the neighboring States found in their fastnesses. Thegeneral impression has been, that these were mainly runaways of recentdate, who had made their escape from contemporary masters. How many ofour readers know that for more than three quarters of a century beforethe purchase of Florida there had been a nation of negroes establishedthere, enjoying the wild freedom they loved, mingling and graduallybecoming identified with the Indians, who had made it their city ofrefuge from slavery also? For the slaveholders of Carolina had noscruples against enslaving Indians any more than Africans, until itwas discovered that the untamable nature of the red man made him anunprofitable and a dangerous servant. These Indian slaves fled intothe wilderness, which is now the State of Georgia, pushing their wayeven to the peninsula of Florida, and were followed, in their flightand to their asylum, by many of their black companions in bondage. Fornear seventy-five years this little nation lived happy and contented,till the State of Georgia commenced the series of piratical incursionsinto their country, then a Spanish dependency, from which they werenever afterwards free; the nation at last taking up the slaveholders'quarrel and prosecuting it to the bitter and bloody end.This whole story is told, and well told, by Mr. Giddings. And a mosttouching picture it is. First, the original evasion of the slaves intothat peninsular wilderness, which they reclaimed as far as the supplyof their simple wants demanded. They planted, they hunted, theymultiplied their cattle, they intermarried with their Indian friendsand allies, their children and their children's children grew uparound them, knowing of slavery only by traditionary legend. Theoriginal founders of the tribe passed away, and their sons andgrandsons possessed their corn-fields and their hunting-grounds inpeace. For many years no fears disturbed their security. Under theSpanish rule they were safe and happy. Then comes the gradualgathering of the cloud on the edges of their wilderness, its firstfitful and irregular flashes, till it closes over their heads andbursts upon them in universal ruin and devastation. Their heroicresistance to the invasion of the United States troops follows,sublime from its very desperation. A more unequal contest was neverfought. On one side one of the mightiest powers on earth, with endlessstores of men and money at its beck,--and on the other a handful ofoutcasts fighting for their homes, and the liberties, in nometaphorical sense, of themselves, their wives, and their children,and protracting the fight for as many years as the American Revolutionlasted.Then succeeded the victory of Slavery, and the reduction to hopelessbondage of multitudes who had been for generations free, on claim ofpretended descendants of imaginary owners, by the decision of pettygovernment-officials, without trial or real examination. More thanfive hundred persons, some of them recent fugitives, but mostly menborn free, were thus reduced to slavery at a cost to us all of fortymillions of dollars, or eighty thousand dollars for each recoveredslave! Then comes their removal to the Cherokee lands, west ofArkansas, under the pledge of the faith of the nation, plighted byGeneral Jessup, its authorized agent, that they should be sent to theWest, and settled in a village separate from the Seminole Indians, andthat, in the mean time, they should be protected, should not beseparated, "nor any of them be sold to white men or others." This,however, was not a legitimate issue of a war waged solely for thereduction of these exiles to slavery; and so the doubts of PresidentPolk as to the construction of this treaty were solved by Mr. John Y.Mason, of Virginia, who was sandwiched in between two Free-StateAttorney-Generals for this single piece of dirty work, (of whichtransaction see a most curious account, pp. 328-9 of this book,) andwho enlightened the Presidential mind by the information, that, thoughthe exiles were entitled to their freedom, under the treaty, and had aright to remain in the towns assigned to them, "the Executive _couldnot in any manner interfere to protect them_!"The bordering Creeks, who by long slave-holding had sunk to the levelof the whites around them, longed to seize on these valuableneighbors, and, indeed, they claimed rights of property in them asfugitives in fact from themselves. The exiles were assured by thePresident that they "_had the right to remain in their villages, freefrom all interference or interruption from the Creeks_." Trusting tothe plighted word of the Head of the Nation, they built their huts andplanted their ground, and began again their little industries andenjoyments.But the sight of so many able-bodied negroes, belonging only tothemselves, and setting an evil example to the slaves in the spectacleof an independent colony of blacks, was too tempting and tooirritating to be resisted. A slave-dealer appeared amongst the Creeksand offered to pay one hundred dollars for every Floridian exile theywould seize and deliver to him,--he taking the risk of the title. Twohundred armed Creek warriors made a foray into the colony and seizedall they could secure. They were repulsed, but carried their prisonerswith them and delivered them to the tempter, receiving the stipulatedpieces of silver for their reward. The Seminole agent had theprisoners brought before the nearest Arkansas judge by Habeas Corpus,and the whole matter was reviewed by this infamous magistrate, whooverruled the opinion of the Attorney-General as to their right toreside in their villages, overrode the decision of the President,repealed the treaty-stipulations, pronounced the title of the CreekIndians, and consequently that of their vendee, legal and perfect, anddirected the kidnapped captives to be delivered up to the claimant! Weregret that Mr. Giddings has omitted the name of this wretch, and wehope that in a future edition he will tell the world how to cataloguethis choice specimen in its collection of judicial monsters.Then comes the last scene of this drama of exile. Finding that therewas no rest for the sole of their foot in the United States, thesepeeled and hunted men resolved to turn their backs upon the countrythat had thus cruelly entreated them, and to seek a new home withinthe frontiers of Mexico. The sad procession began its march westwardby night, the warriors keeping themselves always in readiness for anattack. The Creeks, finding that their prey had escaped them, went inpursuit, but were bravely repulsed and fled, leaving their dead uponthe field,--the greatest disgrace that can befall, according to thecode of Indian honor. The exiles then pursued their march into Mexicowithout further molestation. There, in a fertile and picturesqueregion, they have established themselves and resumed the pursuits ofpeaceful life. But they have not been permitted to live in peace eventhere. At least one marauding party, in 1853, was organized in Texas,and went in search of adventures towards the new settlement. Of theparticulars of the expedition we have no account. Only, it is knownthat it returned without captives, and, as the Texan papers announcingthe fact admitted, "_with slightly diminished numbers_." How long theywill be permitted to dwell unmolested in their new homes no one cansay. Complaints are already abroad that the escape of slaves ispromoted by the existence of this colony, which receives and protectsthem. And when the Government shall be ordered by its Slave-holdingDirectory to add another portion of Mexico to the Area of Freedom,these "outrages" will be sure to be found in the catalogue ofgrievances to be redressed. Then they will have to dislodge again andfly yet farther from before the face of their hereditary oppressors.Mr. Giddings has done his task admirably well. It is worthy to be thecrowning work of his long life of public service. His style is of thatbest kind which is never remarked upon, but serves as a clear mediumthrough which the events he portrays are seen without distortion orexaggeration. He has done his country one more service in entireconsistency with those that have filled up the whole course of hishonorable and beneficent life. We have said that this is fit to be thecrowning work of Mr. Giddings's life; but we trust that it is far frombeing the last that he will do for his country. A winter such asrounds his days is fuller of life and promise than a century of vulgarsummers. He has won for himself an honorable and enduring place in thehearts and memories of men by the fidelity to principle and theunfaltering courage of his public course. Of the ignoble hundreds whohave flitted through the Capitol, since he first took his place there,  "Heads without name, no more remembered,"his is one of the two or three that are household words on the lips ofthe nation. And it will so remain and be familiar in the mouths ofposterity, with a fame as pure as it is noble. The ear that hath _not_heard him shall bless him, and the eye that hath _not_ seen him shallgive witness to him.       *       *       *       *       *OBITUARY.The conductors of "The Atlantic" have the painful duty of announcingto their readers the death of CALVIN W. PHILLEO, author of "Akin byMarriage," published in the earlier numbers of this magazine. The plotof the story was sketched at length, and in the brain of the writer itwas complete; but no hand save his own could give it life and form: itmust remain an unfinished work. The mind of Mr. Philleo was singularlyclear, his observation of nature and character sharp anddiscriminating, and his feeling for beauty, in its more placid forms,was intense and pervading. His previous work, "Twice Married," and thevarious sketches of New England life, with which the readers ofmagazine literature are familiar, are sufficient to give him a highplace among novelists. He was warm in his friendships, pure in life,and his early death will be lamented by a wide circle of friends. _Inpace!_***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ATLANTIC MONTHLY, VOLUME 2, ISSUE11, SEPTEMBER, 1858********** This file should be named 10456.txt or 10456.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/4/5/10456Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS," WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL*** END: FULL LICENSE ***The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Moving Picture Girls Snowbound, by LauraLee HopeThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: The Moving Picture Girls Snowbound       Or, The Proof on the FilmAuthor: Laura Lee HopeRelease Date: January 12, 2007  [eBook #20347]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ISO-8859-1***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLSSNOWBOUND***E-text prepared by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, J. P. W. Fraser, Emmy, andthe Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team(http://www.pgdp.net/c/)Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this      file which includes the original illustration.      See 20347-h.htm or 20347-h.zip:      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/0/3/4/20347/20347-h/20347-h.htm)      or      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/0/3/4/20347/20347-h.zip)THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS SNOWBOUNDOrThe Proof on the FilmbyLAURA LEE HOPEAuthor of "The Moving Picture Girls," "The Moving PictureGirls at Oak Farm," "The Outdoor GirlsSeries," "The Bobbsey Twins Series," Etc.IllustratedThe World Syndicate Publishing Co.Cleveland                New YorkMade in U.S.A.Copyright, 1914, byGrosset & DunlapPress ofThe Commercial Bookbinding Co.Cleveland[Illustration: THE MOVING PICTURE RACE WAS ON._The Moving Girls Snowbound._--_Page_ 113.]CONTENTS          CHAPTER                         PAGE              I TROUBLE                      1             II AN UNPLEASANT VISITOR       10            III RUSS TO THE RESCUE          20             IV A FUNNY FILM                27              V A QUEER ACCIDENT            36             VI NEW PLANS                   46            VII OFF TO THE WOODS            56           VIII A BREAKDOWN                 63             IX THE BLIZZARD                73              X AT ELK LODGE                79             XI THROUGH THE ICE             89            XII THE CURIOUS DEER            99           XIII THE COASTING RACE          106            XIV ON SNOWSHOES               114             XV A TIMELY SHOT              124            XVI IN THE ICE CAVE            132           XVII THE RESCUE                 139          XVIII SNOWBOUND                  148            XIX ON SHORT RATIONS           158             XX THE THAW                   166            XXI IN THE STORM               174           XXII THE THREE MEN              181          XXIII THE PLAN OF RUSS           191           XXIV THE PROOF ON THE FILM      199            XXV THE MOVING PICTURE         207THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS SNOWBOUNDCHAPTER ITROUBLE"Daddy is late; isn't he, Ruth?" asked Alice DeVere of her sister, asshe looked up from her sewing."A little," answered the girl addressed, a tall, fair maid, with deepblue eyes, in the depths of which hidden meaning seemed to lie, awaitingdiscovery by someone."A little!" exclaimed Alice, who was rather plump, and whose dark brownhair and eyes were in pleasing contrast to her sister's fairness. "Why,he's more than an hour late, and he's seldom that! He promised to beback from the moving picture studio at four, and now it's after five.""I know, dear, but you remember he said he had many things to talk overwith Mr. Pertell, and perhaps it has taken him longer than heanticipated."Besides you know there are some new plans to be considered," went onRuth. "Mr. Pertell wants to get some different kinds of movingpictures--snow scenes, I believe--and perhaps he has kept daddy to talkabout them. But why are you so impatient? Are you afraid something hashappened to him?""Gracious, no! What put that idea into your head?""Well, I didn't know whether you had noticed it or not, but poor daddyhasn't been quite himself since we came back from Oak Farm. I am afraidsomething is bothering him--or worrying him.""Perhaps it is his voice, though it has seemed better of late.""I think not," said Ruth, slowly, as she bent her head in a listeningattitude, for a step was coming along the hallway in the FenmoreApartment, where the DeVere girls and their father had their ratherlimited quarters."That isn't he," said Ruth, with a little sigh of disappointment. "Ithought at first it was. No, I don't mean that it was his voice, Alice.That really seems better since he so suddenly became hoarse, and had totake up moving picture work instead of the legitimate drama he loves somuch. It is some other trouble, Alice.""I hadn't noticed it, I confess. But I suppose you'll say that I'm soflighty I never notice anything.""I never called you flighty, dear. You are of a lively disposition,that's all.""And you are a wee bit too much the other way, sister mine!" And then,to take any sting out of the words, Alice rose from her chair with abound, crossed the room in a rush, and flung her arms about her sister,embracing her heartily and kissing her."Oh, Alice!" protested the other. "You are crushing me!""I'm a regular bear, I suppose. Hark, is that daddy?"They both listened, but the footsteps died away as before."Why are you so anxious?""I want some money, sister mine, and daddy promised to bring my movingpicture salary up with him. I wanted to do a little shopping before thestores close. But I'm afraid it's too late now," the girl added,ruefully. "Daddy said he'd be here in plenty of time, and he neverdisappointed me before.""Oh, if that's all you're worrying about, I'll lend you some money.""Will you, really? Then I'll get ready and go. There's that littleFrench shop just around the corner. They keep open after the others.Madame Morey is so thrifty, and there was the sweetest shirt waist inthe window the other day. I hope it isn't gone! I'll get ready at once.You be getting out the money, Ruth, dear. Is there anything I can getfor you? It's awfully kind of you. Shall I bring back anything forsupper?""Gracious, what a rattlebox you're getting to be, Alice," spoke Ruth,soberly, as she laid aside her sewing and went to the bureau for herpocketbook."That's half of life!" laughed the younger girl. "Quick, Ruth, I want toget out and get back, and be here when daddy comes. I want to hear allabout the new plans for taking moving picture plays. Is that the money?Thanks! I'm off!" and the girl fairly rushed down the hall of theapartment. Ruth heard her call a greeting to Mrs. Dalwood, who livedacross the corridor--a cheery greeting, in her fresh, joyous voice."Dear little sister!" murmured Ruth, as she sat with folded hands,looking off into space and meditating. "She enjoys life!"And certainly Alice DeVere did. Not that Ruth did not also; but it wasin a different way. Alice was of a more lively disposition, and herfather said she reminded him every day more and more of her deadmother. Ruth had an element of romanticism in her character, whichperhaps accounted for her dreaminess at times. In the work of acting andposing for moving pictures, which was what the two girls, and theirfather, a veteran actor, were engaged in, Ruth always played theromantic parts, while nothing so rejoiced Alice as to have a hoydenishpart to enact.Alice hastened along the streets, now covered with a film of newlyfallen snow. It was sifting down from a leaden sky, and the clouds hadadded to the darkness which was already coming that November evening."Oh, it's good to be alive, such weather as this!" Alice exulted as shehastened along, the crisp air and the exercise bringing to her cheeks adeeper bloom. Her eyes shone, and there was so much of life and youthand vitality in her that, as she hastened along through the fallingsnow, which dusted itself on her furs, more than one passerby turned tolook at her in admiration. She was a "moving picture" in herself.She lingered long in the quaint little French shop, there were so manybargains in the way of lingerie. Alice looked at many longingly, andturned some over more longingly, but she thought of her purse, and knewit would not stand the strain to which she contemplated putting it."I'll just have to wait about the others, Madame," she said, with asigh. "I've really bought more now than I intended.""I hope zat Mademoiselle will come often!" laughed the French woman.Back through the streets, now covered with snow, hastened Alice,tripping lightly, and now and then, when she thought no one was watchingher, she took a little run and slide, as in the days of her childhood.Not that she was much more than a child still, being only a little overfifteen. Ruth was two years her senior, but Ruth considered herselfquite "grown up.""I wonder if daddy has come back yet?" Alice mused, as she hastened onto the apartment. "That looks like Russ Dalwood ahead of me," she wenton, referring to the son of the neighbor across the hall. Russ "filmed,"or made the moving pictures for the company by whom Mr. DeVere and hisdaughters were engaged. "Yes, it is Russ!" the girl exclaimed. "He hasprobably come right from the studio, and he'll know about daddy. Russ!Russ!" she called, as she came nearer to the young man.He turned, and a welcoming smile lighted his face."Oh, hello, Alice!" he greeted, genially. "Where's Ruth?""Just for that I shan't tell you! Don't you want to walk with _me_?" sheasked, archly. "Why must you always ask for Ruth when I meet you alone?""I didn't! I mean--I--er----""Oh, don't try to make it any worse!" she laughed at his discomfiture."Let it go at that! Did you just come from the studio?""Yes, and we had a hard day of it. I forget how many thousand feet offilm I reeled off.""Was my father there?""Yes, he was with Mr. Pertell when I came out.""I wonder what makes him so late?""Oh, there's a rush of work on. But I think he'll be along soon, for Iheard Mr. Pertell say he wouldn't keep him five minutes.""That's good. Oh, dear! Isn't it slippery!" she cried, as she barelysaved herself from falling."Take my arm," invited Russ."Thanks, I will. I came out in a hurry to do a little shopping. Ruth isat home. There, I told you after all. I'm of a forgiving spirit, yousee.""I see," he laughed.They stepped along lightly together, laughing and talking, for Russ wasalmost like a brother to the DeVere girls, though the two families hadonly known each other since both had come to the Fenmore Apartment,about a year before."Did they film any big plays to-day?" asked Alice. "I know Mr. Pertellsaid he wouldn't need Ruth and myself, so of course they didn't doanything really good. Not at all conceited; am I?" she asked, with arippling laugh."Well, you're right this time--there wasn't much of importance doing,"Russ replied. "Miss Pennington and Miss Dixon had some pretty goodparts, but the stuff was mostly comic to-day.""That suited Mr. Switzer, then. I think he is the nicest German comedianI ever knew, and I met quite a number when father was appearing in realplays.""Yes, Switzer is a good sort. But you should have seen Mr. Sneedto-day!""Found fault with everything; eh?""I should say so, and then some, as the boys say. He said something wassure to happen before the day was over, and it did--a stone wall fell onhim.""Really?""Really, but not real stone. It was one of Pop Snooks's sceniccreations. One of the pieces of wood hit Mr. Sneed on the head, sosomething happened. And what a fuss he made! He's the real grouch ofthe company, all right. Well, here we are!" and the young man guided hiscompanion into the hallway of the Fenmore."See you again!" called Alice, as she went into her door and Russ intohis."Is that you, Alice?" called Ruth, from an inner room."Yes, dear. Has daddy come home?""Not yet. I wonder if we'd better telephone?""No, I just met Russ, and he said daddy would be right along. He'splanning something with Mr. Pertell."The table was nearly prepared when a step was heard in the hall."There he is now!" cried Alice, as she flew to open the door before herfather could get out his key. But as he entered, and Alice reached up tokiss him, she cried out in amazement at the look on his face."Why, Daddy! Has anything happened?" she asked."Yes," he said in his hoarse voice--a hoarseness caused by a throataffection. "Yes, something has happened, or is going to. I'm in serioustrouble!"CHAPTER IIAN UNPLEASANT VISITORRuth overheard the question asked by Alice, and her father's answer. Shecame in swiftly, and put her arms about him, as her sister had done."Oh, Daddy dear, what is it?" she asked, anxiously."I--I'll tell you--presently," he replied, chokingly. "I am a little outof breath. I am getting too--too stout. And my throat has bothered me agood deal of late. Would you mind getting me that throat spray andmedicine Dr. Rathby left? That always helps me.""I'll get it," offered Alice, quickly, as her father sank into a chair,and while she searched in the medicine closet for it, there was a dullache in her heart. More trouble! And there had been so much of it oflate. The sun had seemed to break through the clouds, and now it hadgone behind again.And while the girls are thus preparing to minister to their father, Iwill tell my new readers something of the previous books of this series,and a little about the main characters.In the initial volume, entitled "The Moving Picture Girls; Or, FirstAppearances in Photo Dramas," I related how Mr. Hosmer DeVere, atalented actor, suddenly lost his voice, by the return of an old throataffection. He had just been "cast" for an important part in a new play,but had to give it up, as he could not speak distinctly enough to beheard across the footlights.The DeVere family fortunes were at low ebb, and money was much needed.By accident Russ Dalwood, a moving picture operator, suggested to one ofthe girls that their father might act for a moving picture film company,as he would not have to use his voice in such employment.How Mr. DeVere took the engagement, and how Ruth and Alice followed him,as well as their part in helping Russ to save a valuable camerapatent--all this you will find set down in the first book.In the second volume, entitled "The Moving Picture Girls at Oak Farm;Or, Queer Happenings While Taking Rural Plays," the scene was shifted tothe country. There you may read of many strange occurrences, as well asfunny ones--how Alice fell into the water--but there! I must save myspace in this book for the happenings of it. I might add that,incidentally, the girls helped to solve a strange mystery concerning OakFarm, and solved it in a way that made glad the hearts of Mr. and Mrs.Felix Apgar, the parents of Sandy, and of the heart of Sandy himself.Mr. Frank Pertell was the manager of the Comet Film Company, with whomMr. DeVere and his daughters had an engagement, and the entire company,including the DeVeres, spent a whole summer at Oak Farm, in New Jersey,making rural plays.The company had just returned to New York City, to finish some dramasthere, and Mr. Pertell was working on new plans, which were not, as yet,fully developed.The Comet Film Company included a number of people, and you will meetsome of them from time to time as this story advances. You have alreadyheard of a few members. In addition there was Wellington Bunn, a formerShakespearean actor, who could never seem to get away from an ambitionto do Hamlet. Pepper Sneed was the "grouch" of the company, alwaysfinding fault, or worrying lest something happen. Paul Ardite was the"leading juvenile," the father of the moving picture girls being theleading man. The girls themselves, though comparatively new to thebusiness, had made wonderful strides, for they had the advantage ofprivate "coaching" at home from Mr. DeVere.Miss Pearl Pennington and Miss Laura Dixon were former vaudevilleactresses, who had gone into the "movies," and between them and theDeVeres there was not the best of feeling; caused by the jealousy of theformer.Carl Switzer, a German with a marked accent, generally did "comics."Then there was Mrs. Maguire, who did "old woman" parts. She had twograndchildren, Tommy and Nellie, who frequently played minor r?les."Do you feel any better, Daddy?" asked Ruth, as she took from herfather's hand the atomizer he had been using on his throat."Yes, the pain is much less. Dr. Rathby's medicine is a wonderful help.""Do you feel like--talking?" inquired Alice gently, for she saw that theworried look had not left her father's face."Yes," he answered, with a smile, "but I do not want to burden you girlswith all of my troubles.""Why shouldn't you?" asked Ruth, quickly. "Who would you share yourtroubles with, if not with us? We must help each other!""Yes, I suppose so," returned Mr. DeVere, in a low voice. "And yet,after all, I suppose this is not such a terrible trouble. It will notkill any of us. But it will make a hard pull for me if I cannot prove mycontention.""What is that?" asked Alice. "Is there some trouble with the filmcompany? You haven't lost your engagement; have you, Daddy?""Oh, no, it isn't that," he answered. "I'll tell you. Just a little moreof that spray, please, Alice. I will then be better able to talk."In a few moments he resumed:"Did you ever hear me speak of a Dan Merley?""You mean that man who came to see you when we lived in the otherapartment--the nicer one?" asked Ruth, for the Fenmore was not one ofthe high-class residences of New York. The DeVeres had not been able toafford a better home in the time of their poverty. And when better dayscame they had still remained, as they liked their neighbors, theDalwoods. Then, too, they had been away all summer at Oak Farm."Yes, that was the man," replied Mr. DeVere. "Well, in my hard luck daysI borrowed five hundred dollars from him to meet some pressing needs. Igave him my note for it. By hard work, later, I was able to scrape thefive hundred dollars together, and I paid him back."Unfortunately Dan Merley was a bit under the influence of drink when Igave him the cash, and he could not find my promissory note to return tome."He promised to send it around to me the next day, and, very foolishly,as I see it now, I let him keep the money, not even getting a receiptfor it. I am not a business man--never was one. I trusted Dan Merley,and I should not have done so.""Why?" asked Ruth."Because he came to me to-day, for the first time in several months, anddemanded his five hundred dollars. I told him I had paid it, and triedto recall to him the circumstances. But, as I said, he was slightlyintoxicated when I gave him the bills, and his mind was not clear. Hedeclares positively that I never paid him, and he says he will maketrouble for me if I do not hand him over the money in a short time.""But you did give it to him, Daddy!" exclaimed Alice."Of course I did; but I have no proof.""Did you pay him by check?" asked Ruth, who was quite a business woman,and keeper of the house."Unfortunately I was not prosperous enough in those days to have a bankaccount," answered Mr. DeVere. "A check would be a receipt; but Ihaven't that. In fact, I haven't a particle of evidence to show that Ipaid the money. And Dan Merley has my note. He could sue me on it, andany court would give him a judgment against me, so he could collect.""But that would be paying him twice!" exclaimed Alice."I know it, and that is the injustice of it. It would be out of thequestion for me to raise five hundred dollars now. My throat treatmenthas been expensive, and though we are making good money at the movingpicture business, I have not enough to pay this debt twice.""He is a wicked man!" burst out Alice."My dear!" Ruth gently reproved."I don't care! He is, to make daddy pay twice!""Yes, it is hard lines," sighed the veteran actor. "I have begged andpleaded with Merley, imploring him to try and remember that I paid him,but he is positive that I did not do so.""Do you suppose he really thinks so--that he is honest in his beliefthat you never paid him?" asked Ruth."Well, it is a hard thing to say against a man, when I have no proof,"replied Mr. DeVere, "but I believe, in his heart, Dan Merley knows Ipaid him. I think he is just trying to make me pay him over again tocheat me.""Oh, how can he be so cruel?" cried Alice."He is a hard man to deal with," went on her father. "A very hard man.This has been bothering me all day. I simply cannot pay that fivehundred dollars; and yet, if I don't----""Can they lock you up, Daddy?" Alice questioned, fearfully."Oh, no, dear, not that. But he can make it very unpleasant for me. Hecan force me to go to court, and that would take me away from the filmstudio. I might even lose my engagement there if I had to spend too muchtime over a lawsuit."But, worst of all, my reputation will suffer. I have always beenhonest, and I have paid every debt I owed, though sometimes it took alittle while to do it. Now if this comes to smirch my character, I don'tknow what I shall do.""Poor Daddy!" said Ruth, softly, as she smoothed his rumpled hair."There, girls, don't let me bother you," he said, as gaily as he could."Perhaps there may come a way out.""Why don't you ask the advice of Mr. Pertell?" suggested Ruth."I believe I will," agreed her father. "He is a good business man. Iwish I was. If I had been I would have insisted on getting either areceipt from Merley, or my note back. But I trusted him. I thought hewas a friend of mine.""Well, let's have supper," suggested Alice. "Matters may look brighterthen.""And I'll go see Mr. Pertell this evening," promised Mr. DeVere. "He maybe able to advise and help me."The meal was not a very jolly one at first, but gradually the feeling ofgloom passed as the supper progressed. Mr. DeVere told of what hadhappened that day at the film studio where the moving pictures weremade."Now I think I'll go see Mr. Pertell," the actor announced, as he rosefrom the table. "He said he would be in his office late to-night, as heis working on some new plans.""What are they, Daddy?" asked Alice. "Are we to go off to some farmagain?""Not this time. I believe there are to be some winter scenes taken,though just where we will go for them has not been announced. Well, I'moff," and, kissing the girls good-bye, Mr. DeVere went out.Ruth and Alice, in his absence, discussed the new source of trouble thathad come to them. They had been so happy all summer, that the blow felldoubly heavy."Isn't it just horrid!" exclaimed Ruth."Too mean for anything!" agreed Alice. "I wish I had that Dan Merleyhere. I--I'd----"But Alice did not finish. Ruth had looked at her, to stop her ratherimpulsive sister from the use of too violent an expression. But therewas no need of this. An interruption came in the form of a knock at thedoor."Who is it?" asked Ruth, and there came a little note of fear into hervoice, for she was timid, and she realized at once that it was not oneof their kind neighbors from across the hall. Russ, his mother, and hisbrother Billy always rapped in a characteristic manner."It's me--Dan Merley, and I want to see the old man!" was the answer.The girls drew together in fright, for they recognized by the thicknessof the voice that the owner was not altogether himself."Oh!" gasped Alice, and then the door was pushed open, for the catch hadbeen left off, and a man came unsteadily into the room.CHAPTER IIIRUSS TO THE RESCUE"Where's the boss?" asked the man, as he leaned heavily against thetable. "I want to see the boss.""Do you--do you mean my--my father?" faltered Ruth, as she steppedprotectingly in front of Alice."That's jest who I mean, young lady," and the new-comer leered at her."Is he in? If he isn't I won't mind an awful lot. I'll wait for him.This is a nice place," and, without being invited he slouched into achair."My--my father is----""He'll be back in just a little while!" interrupted Alice, briskly. "Didhe tell you to come here?""Nope! I told myself!" replied the man. "I'm glad I did, too. This isnice place and you're nice girls, too. Sisters, I take it?""You need not discuss us!" exclaimed Ruth with dignity. "If you willleave word what your business with my father is I will have him call onyou.""What, leave? Me leave? Nothin' doin', sister. I'm too comfortablehere," and he leaned back in the chair and laughed foolishly."What--what did you want to see Mr. DeVere about?" inquired Ruth, thoughshe could well guess."I'll tell you what it's about," said Dan Merley, confidentially. "It'sabout money. I want five hundred dollars from your father, and I want itquick--with interest, too. Don't forget that.""My father paid you that money!" Ruth declared, with boldness."He did not!" denied the unpleasant visitor. "He owes it to me yet, andI want it. And, what's more I'm going to have it!""That is unfair--unjust!" said Ruth, and there was a trace of tears inher voice. "My father paid you the money, and you promised to give himback the note--the paper that showed you had loaned it to him. But younever did.""How do you know all this?" he asked."Because my father was just telling us about it--a little while ago. Hesaid you had--forgotten.""Yes, I know! He said I'd been drinking too much; didn't he?"Ruth and Alice drew further back, offended by his coarse language."He--he said you were not--quite yourself," spoke Alice gently."Oh ho! Another one! So there's two of you here!" laughed the man."Well, this certainly is a nice place. I guess I'll stay until the bosscomes back. That is, unless you have the five hundred dollars here, andwant to pay me," he added, with a sickly grin."You have been paid once," Ruth insisted."I have not--I never was paid!" Dan Merley cried. "I want my money andI'm going to have it! Do you hear? I'm going to have it, and have itsoon! You tell your father that from me!" and he banged his fist on thetable.Ruth and Alice looked at each other. The same thought was in both theirminds, and it shone from their eyes. They must leave at once--the doorwas slightly open."No more monkey business!" cried the unwelcome caller. "I lent yourfather that money and he never paid me back. He may say he did; but hecan't prove it. I hold his note, and if he doesn't pay me I'll----""What will you do?" interrupted a new voice, and with relief Ruth andAlice looked up, to see Russ Dalwood entering the room."Excuse me," he said to the girls, "I knocked, but you did not seem tohear. Possibly there was too much noise," and he looked at the mansignificantly. "Is there any trouble here?" the young moving pictureoperator asked."Oh, Russ, make him--make him go!" begged Alice, half sobbing. "He wantsto see my father--it's some sort of unjust money claim--and he wants toenforce it. Father has gone out----""And that's just where this person is going!" announced Russ, advancingtoward the man."What's that?" demanded Merley in an ugly tone."I said you were going out. It's your cue to move!""I don't move until I get my five hundred dollars," answered thevisitor. "I've waited for it long enough.""My father paid you!" protested Ruth."I say he did not!" and again the man banged the table with his fist."Well, whether he did or not is a question for you and Mr. DeVere tosettle," said Russ, in firm tones. "You will kindly leave these youngladies alone.""I will; eh? Who says so?""I do!""And who are you?""A friend. I must ask you to leave.""Not until I get my five hundred dollars!""Look here!" exclaimed Russ, and, though he spoke in low tones, therewas that in his voice which made it very determined. "You may have avalid claim against Mr. DeVere, or you may not. I will not go into that.But he is not at home, and you will have to come again. You have noright in here. I must ask you to leave.""Huh! You haven't any right here either. You can't give _me_ orders.""They are not my orders. This is a request from the young ladiesthemselves, and I am merely seeing that it is carried out. You don'twant him here; do you?" he asked, of the two girls."Oh, no! Please go!" begged Ruth."I want my money!" cried the man."Look here!" exclaimed Russ, taking hold of Merley's shoulder. "You willeither leave quietly, or I'll summon a policeman and have you arrested.Even if you have a claim against Mr. DeVere, and I don't believe youhave, that gives you no right to trespass here. Take your claim tocourt!""I tell you I want my money now!""Well, you'll not get it. You have your remedy at law. Now leave atonce, do you hear?""Yes, I hear all right, and you'll hear from me later. I will go to law,and I'll have my five hundred dollars. I'll bring suit against Mr.DeVere, and then he'll wish he'd paid me, for he'll have to settle myclaim and costs besides. Oh, I'll sue all right!""I don't care what you do, as long as you get out of here!" cried Russ,sharply, for he saw that the strain was telling on Ruth and Alice."Leave at once!""Suppose I don't go?""Then I'll put you out!"Russ looked very brave as he said this. Ruth glanced at him, and thoughthe had never appeared to better advantage. And between Russ and Ruththere was--but there, I am getting ahead of my story."Are you going?" asked the young moving picture operator, again."Well, rather than have a row, I will. But I warn you I'll sue DeVereand I'll get my money, too. It's all nonsense for him to say he paid me.Where's his proof? I ask you that. Where's his proof?""Never mind about that," returned Russ, calmly. "It's your move, as Isaid before. And you can give a good imitation of a moving picture filmshowing a man getting out of a room."With no good grace the man arose clumsily from his chair, and with leersat Ruth and Alice, who were clinging to each other on the far side ofthe room, the visitor started for the door."I'll see you again!" he called, coarsely. "Then maybe the laugh will beon my side. I'm going to have my money, I tell you!"Russ kept after the man, and walked behind him to the door. There DanMerley paused to exclaim, in loud tones:"You wait--I'll get my money out of DeVere--you'll see!"Then he stumbled on down the hallway, and Russ quickly closed and lockedthe door."Oh, Russ!" exclaimed Ruth. Then she sank into a chair, and bent forwardwith her head pillowed in her arms on the table."There, there," said the young man gently, as he put his hand on herhead. "It's all right--he's gone. Don't be afraid.""Oh, but what a dreadful man!" cried Alice. "I could----""Don't, dear," begged her sister gently, as she raised her head. Therewere tears in her eyes. Russ gently slipped his hand over her littlerosy palm.CHAPTER IVA FUNNY FILMFor a moment Ruth remained thus, while, Alice, with flashing eyes, stoodlooking at the door leading into the hall, as if anticipating the returnof that unpleasant visitor. Then Ruth lifted her head, and with a rosyblush, and a shy look at Russ, disengaged her hand."I--I feel better now," she said."That's good," and he smiled. "I don't believe that fellow will comeback. I'll stay here. Is your father out?""Yes, and all on account of that horrid man," answered Alice. "Oh, itwas so good of you to come in Russ!""I happened to be coming here anyhow," he answered. "When I saw the dooropen, and heard what was said, which I could not help doing, I did notstand on ceremony.""It was awfully good of you," murmured Ruth, who now seemed quiteherself again. "I suppose you heard what that man said?""Not all," he made reply. "It was something about money though, Igathered. He was demanding it.""Yes, and after father has already paid it," put in Alice. "That's wheredaddy has gone now--to consult Mr. Pertell as to the best course ofaction."Between them, Ruth and Alice told about Dan Merley's claim, and theinjustice of it. Russ was duly sympathetic."If I were your father I would pay no attention to his demand," theyoung moving picture operator said."But suppose he sues, as he threatened?" asked Ruth."Let him, and fight the case in court when it comes up. Merley may beonly 'bluffing', to use a common expression.""But it annoys daddy almost as much as if the case were real, you see,"said Ruth. "Won't you sit down, Russ? Excuse our impoliteness, butreally we've been quite upset.""Thanks," he laughed as he took a chair. "You need cheering up. You cometo the studio to-morrow and forget your troubles in a good laugh.""Why?" asked Alice. "Ruth and I are not down for any parts to-morrow.""No, but Mr. Switzer is going to do some comic stunts, and Mr. Bunn andMr. Sneed are in them with him. There are to be some trick films, Ibelieve.""Then we'll go," decided Alice. "I think a laugh would do me good."Gradually the little fright wore off, and when Mr. DeVere returnedshortly afterward the girls were themselves again, under the happyinfluence of Russ."What luck, Daddy?" asked Alice, as her father came in. He shook hishead, as she added: "Russ knows all about it," for she gathered that hemight not like to speak before the young man. "What did Mr. Pertellsay?""He advised me to wait until Merley made the next move, and then comeand see him again. He said he would then send me to the attorney for thefilm company, who would handle my case without charge.""How good of him!" cried Ruth, impulsively."Mr. Pertell gave daddy the same advice Russ gave us," added Alice. "Oh,it was so good to have him here when that dreadful man came in," shewent on."What man?" asked Mr. DeVere, in surprise. "Was someone in here while Iwas gone--those camera scoundrels, Russ?""No, it was Dan Merley himself!" exclaimed Ruth, "and he was so horrid,Daddy!" There was a hint of tears in her voice."The impertinent scoundrel!" exclaimed Mr. DeVere, in the manner thathad won him such success on the stage. "I shall go to the policeand----""No, don't Daddy dear," begged Ruth laying a detaining hand on his arm,as he turned to the door. "That would only make it more unpleasant forus. We would have to go to court and testify, if you had him arrested.And, besides, I don't know on what charge you could cause his arrest. Hereally did nothing to us, except to hurt our feelings and scare us. ButI fancy Russ scared him in turn. Don't go to the police, Daddy.""All right," he agreed. "But tell me all about it."They did so, by turns, and Mr. DeVere's anger waxed hot against Merleyas he listened. But he realized that it was best to take no rash step,much as he desired to. So he finally calmed down."If I could only prove that I had paid that money," he murmured, "allwould be well. I must make it a point, after this, to be morebusiness-like. It is like locking the stable door after the automobileis gone, though, in this case," he added, with a whimsical smile.Russ remained a little longer, and then took his leave. Ruth saw to it,even getting up out of bed to do it, that the chain was on the halldoor. For she was in nervous doubt as to whether or not she had takenthat precaution. But she found the portal secure."That man might come back in the night," she thought. But she did notconfide her fear to Alice.Morning revealed a new and wonderful scene. For in the night there hadbeen a heavy storm, and the ground of Central Park was white with snow.A little rain had fallen, and then had frozen, and the trees wereencased in ice. Then as the sun shone brightly, it flashed as onmillions of diamonds, dazzling and glittering. Winter had come early,and with more severity than usual in the vicinity of New York."Oh, how lovely!" cried Alice, as she looked out. "I must have a slide,if I can find a place! Ruth, I'm going to wash your face!""Don't you dare!"But Alice raised the window, and from the sill took a handful of snow.She rushed over to her sister with it."Stop it! Stop it! Don't you dare!" screamed Ruth. Then she squealed asshe felt the cold snow on her cheeks."What's the matter with you girls in there?" called Mr. DeVere from hisapartment. "You seem merry enough.""We are," answered Alice. "I've washed Ruth's face, and I'm going towash yours in a minute.""Just as you like," he laughed. And then he sighed, for he recalled atime when his girlish wife had once challenged him the same way, whenthey were on their honeymoon. For Mrs. DeVere had been vivacious likeAlice, and the younger daughter was a constant reminder to her father ofhis dead wife--a happy and yet a sad reminder.Alice came rushing in with more snow, and there was a merry little scenebefore breakfast. Then Mr. DeVere hurried to the film studio, for he wasto take part in several dramas that day."I know I'll be late," he said, "for the travel will be slow thismorning, on account of the snow. And I have to go part way by surfacecar, as I have an errand on the way down town.""We're coming down, also," Ruth informed him."Why, you're not in anything to-day," he remarked, pausing in the act ofputting on his overcoat. "You're not cast for anything until 'The Priceof Honor,' to-morrow.""But we're going down, just the same," Alice laughed. "We want to seesome of the funny films.""Come ahead then," invited Mr. DeVere. "Better use the subway all youcan. Even the elevated will have trouble with all this sleet. Good-bye,"and he kissed them as he hurried out.The girls made short shrift of the housework, and then left for theplace where the moving pictures were made.As I have described in the first book of this series how moving picturesare taken, I will not repeat it here, except to say that in a specialcamera, made for the purpose, there is a long narrow strip of celluloidfilm, of the same nature as in the ordinary camera. The pictures aretaken on this strip, at the rate of sixteen a second. Later this film isdeveloped, and from that "negative" a "positive" is made. This"positive" is then run through a specially made projecting lantern whichmagnifies the pictures for the screen.As Alice and Ruth got out at the floor where most of the scenes weremade they heard laughter."Something's going on," remarked the younger girl."And it doesn't sound like Mr. Sneed, our cheerful 'grouch,' either,"answered Ruth.As they went in they saw Carl Switzer, the German comedian, climbing ahigh step-ladder with a pail of paste in one hand, and a roll of wallpaper in the other. He was in a scene representing a room, which he wasto decorate."Is diss der right vay to do it?" Mr. Switzer asked, as he paused halfway up the ladder, and looked at Mr. Pertell."That's it. Now you've got the idea," replied the manager. "Begin overagain, and Russ, I guess you can begin to run the film now," for theyoung moving picture operator was in readiness with his camera."You must tremble, and shake the ladder," advised the manager, who wasalso, in this case, the stage director. "You want to register fear, yousee, because you are an amateur paper hanger.""Yah. Dot's right. I know so leedle about der papering business alrettyyet dot I could write a big book on vot I don't know," confessed Mr.Switzer."All ready now--tremble and shake!" ordered the manager.The comic film that was being made was a reproduction of a scene oftenplayed in vaudeville theaters, where an amateur paper hanger gets intoall sorts of ludicrous mishaps with a bucket of paste, rolls of paperand the step ladder. It was not very new, but had not been done formoving pictures before."Here I goes!" called Mr. Switzer. "I am shaking!""Good!" encouraged Mr. Pertell. "Now, Mr. Bunn, you come in, as theowner of the house, to see if the paper hanger is doing his workproperly. You find he is not, for he is going to put the wrong sort ofpaper on the ceiling. Then you try to show him yourself.""Do I wear my tall hat?""Oh, yes, of course, and I think Mr. Switzer, you had better let----"But the directions were never completed, for at that moment, in theexcess of his zeal, Mr. Switzer shook the step ladder to such goodeffect that it toppled over and with him on it.Down he came on top of Wellington Bunn, in all his dignity and the gloryof the tall hat, and paste flew all over, liberally spattering bothactors.CHAPTER VA QUEER ACCIDENT"Get that Russ! Every motion of it!" cried the manager. "That will makeit better than when we rehearsed it. Spatter that paste all over Mr.Bunn while you're at it, Mr. Switzer.""Stop! Stop, I say! I protest. I will not have it!""Vell, you goin' to git it, all right!" cried the German, and with thebrush he liberally daubed the Shakespearean actor with the white andsticky stuff. All the other players were laughing at the ridiculousscene."More paste!" ordered Mr. Pertell. "More paste there, Mr. Switzer. Don'tbe afraid of it, Mr. Bunn! It's clean!""Oh, this is awful--this is terrible!" groaned the tragic actor. "My hatis ruined."And such did seem to be the case, for the shining silk tile was filledwith paste, the outside also being well covered.Mr. Bunn tried to get away from the slapping brush of Mr. Switzer, butthe German was not to be outwitted. The two had fallen to the floorunder the impact of the comic player, and were now tangled up in theladder."That's good! That's good!" laughed Mr. Pertell. "Get all of that, Russ!Every bit!""I'm getting it!" cried the operator, as he continued to grind away atthe crank of the moving picture camera.Again Mr. Bunn tried to get up and away, but the ladder, through whichhis legs had slipped, hampered him. Then a roll of the paper got underthe feet of both players. It unreeled, and some paste got on it. Thenext instant part of it was plastered over Mr. Switzer's face, and,being unable to see, he pawed about wildly, spattering more paste allover, much of it getting on Mr. Bunn."Better than ever. Use some more of that paper!" ordered the manager."Paste some on Mr. Switzer, if you can, Mr. Bunn.""Oh, I can all right!" cried the older actor. "Here is where I have myrevenge!"He scooped up a hand full of paste, spread it on a piece of paper, andclapped it over the face of the German, for that player had removed thefirst piece that was stuck on. And thus they capered about in the scenicroom, making a chaos of it.Russ took all the pictures for the future amusement of thousands whoattended the darkened theaters.Of course it was horseplay, pure and simple, and yet audiences go intoparoxysms of mirth over much the same things. The love of slap-stickcomedy has not all died out, and the managers realize this."I don't know when I've laughed so much," confessed Alice, holding heraching sides as she sat down near Ruth, when the little comedy was over."Nor I, my dear. I think the old saying is true, after all, that 'alittle nonsense, now and then, is relished by the best of men.'""This was certainly nonsense," admitted Alice. "Oh, come over and let'ssee Miss Pennington and Miss Dixon in that new play--'Parlor Magic.'It's very interesting, and rather funny."The two older actresses were to play in a little scene where a youngman--in this case Paul Ardite--attempted to do some tricks he had beenstudying. He was supposed to come to grief in making an omelet in a silkhat, and have other troubles when he tried to take rabbits out of parlorvases, and such like nonsense.This was one of the trick films--that is, it was not a straight piece ofwork. It depended for its success on the manipulation of the camera, onsubstituting dummies for real persons or animals at certain points, theinterposition of films and many other things too technical to put into abook that is only intended to amuse you."How are you?" asked Miss Pennington, as Ruth and Alice came over totheir side of the studio. "You are looking quite well.""And we are well," answered Alice. "We want to see you act," for thefilming had not yet begun."For instruction or amusement?" asked Miss Dixon, and her voice hadsomething of a sneer in it. She and her chum were not on the mostfriendly terms with Ruth and Alice."Both amusement and instruction," responded Alice, sweetly--in a doublysweet voice under the circumstances. "One can learn from anyone, youknow," and she pretended to be interested in one of the tricks Paul waspracticing while getting ready for the camera.Alice could say things with a double meaning at times, and probably thiswas one of them."Oh!" was all Miss Dixon said, and then she called: "Paul, come here;won't you? I want you to fasten my glove.""Certainly," he agreed, with a look at Alice which was meant to say: "Idon't want to do this, but I can't very well get out of it."Paul, I might add, had been quite interested in Miss Dixon before theadvent of Alice, and the vaudeville actress rather resented the change.She took advantage of every opportunity to make Paul fetch and carry forher as he had been wont to do.The parlor magic play was successfully filmed and then, as Alice andRuth had some shopping to do, to get their costumes ready for theirappearance before the camera next day, they prepared to leave. Theystopped for a moment, however, to watch their father in his play--"AHeart's Cavalier." This was rather a pretentious drama, and called forreally good acting, the nature of which appealed to the veteran player.It was really a delight to watch him, for he gave a finishedperformance, and the loss of his voice was no handicap here. He couldwhisper the words, or utter them in a low tone, so that the motion ofhis lips might be seen by the audience.If you have ever seen motion pictures, and I am sure you all have, youknow that often you can tell exactly what the characters are saying bywatching the form of their lips.Deaf persons, who have learned to know what other persons are saying,merely by watching their lips, are able to "hear" much more than can theordinary individual what goes on in moving pictures. In this they have adistinct advantage.But of course the story the celluloid film tells is mostly conveyed bythe action of the characters, and Mr. DeVere was an expert in this."Good-bye, Daddy," called Alice, when he was out of the scene for amoment. "We'll be back, and you can take us out to lunch.""All right," he laughed. "Make your poor old daddy spend his hard-earnedmoney, will you?""You know you're just crazy to do it," said Ruth. "Come on Alice."The next day called for hard work for both the moving picture girls, andthere were a number of outdoor scenes to do. They were glad of thischange, however.Some of the scenes Ruth and Alice had parts in, as well as Paul Ardite,were filmed out in Bronx Park, with the still natural wildness of thatbeauty spot as background. One scene was down near the beaver pond, andwith the snow on the ground, and the sleet still on the trees, thepictures afterward turned out to be most effective. Special permissionhad to be obtained to use the camera in the park, there being a ruleagainst it.Alice had one part which called for feeding the birds with crumbsscattered over the snow. And, just when they wanted this not abird--even a sparrow--was in sight. In vain they went to different partsof the park, looking for some, and scattered many crumbs."I guess we'll have to give it up, and come back some other time," Russsaid finally. "I don't want to make another trip, either," he went on."It wastes so much time, and we're going to be be very busy soon.""What about those new plans?" asked Ruth."They are to be announced to-morrow, I believe," was the answer. "A lotof snow dramas are to be filmed.""Good!" cried Alice. "I love the snow.""Oh, quick! There are some birds!" called Ruth. "See, over there, Alice.Scatter the crumbs!"Russ had them in his pocket in readiness, and soon the snow was covered.The birds did their part well, and as Alice stood near them, throwingcrumbs to the hungry sparrows and starlings, they fluttered about her,and flocked at her feet."Good!" cried Russ, who was busy with the camera. "It couldn't bebetter. This will make a fine film."Alice presented a pretty picture as she stood there in her furs,scattering crumbs to the birds, and the little feathered creaturesproved the best sort of actors, for they were not self-conscious, anddid not stop to peer at the camera, the clicking of which they did notmind in the least."Well, that's done; now I think we'll go back," Russ said, when he hadascertained, by looking at the register on the side of the camera, thatenough feet of the film had been used on that scene. For, in order tohave each scene get its proper amount of space, both as regards time andlength of film a strict watch is kept on how much celluloid is used.A manager, or director, will decide on the importance of the variousscenes, and then divide up the film, giving so many feet to each act.The standard length of film is a thousand feet. It comes in thousandfoot reels, but some plays are so elaborate that two, three or evenseven reels have been given up to them. Great scenic productions, suchas "Quo Vadis?" use up many thousand feet of film.Russ and the two girls, with Paul, started back from the Bronx. Theywere to stop in at the studio, but on reaching there the girls foundthat their father had gone home, leaving a note saying he was going tosee the doctor about his throat."Poor daddy!" murmured Ruth. "He does have such trouble!""Has Merley bothered him again?" asked Russ."No, he has heard nothing from him," answered Alice. "But daddy worriesabout it. Five hundred dollars means more to him now than five thousandmay later. For I hope daddy will get rich some day," she finished, witha laugh.The three walked on together to the subway, and got out at the stationnearest their house. On the way they had to cross one of the surface carlines, and, just as they reached the corner, they heard a shout of alarmor warning, evidently directed at someone in danger from an approachingelectric car."What is it?" cried Ruth, clinging to Alice."I don't know," answered the younger girl. "Oh, yes, there it is!" shecried, pointing.Three men were on the car tracks, and two of them seemed to be trying topull one away, out of the path of an approaching car. The shouts camefrom a number of pedestrians who had seen the danger of the man.The latter seemed to be caught by the foot on the rail, though how thiswas possible was difficult to understand, as the rail was flat.The motorman was doing his best to stop the car, but the rails wereslippery and it was easily seen that he could not do it. Then he addedhis shouts to those of the others."Oh, he'll be killed!" cried Alice, covering her face with her hands.Ruth had also turned aside."No, he won't!" cried Russ, with conviction. "They'll get him off, Ithink. There! He's free! I guess they took off his shoe."As he spoke the girls looked, and they saw the man fall in a peculiarway, to one side, so as to be out of the path of the car, which sweptpast him. The vehicle, however, seemed to hit him, but of this neitherRuss nor the girls could be sure."That's a queer accident," murmured Russ, as he started toward the sceneof it. "Come on, girls."Ruth and Alice went with him. There was a little crowd about the fallenman, and at the sight of the fellow's face Alice suddenly cried:"Look! That is Dan Merley!"CHAPTER VINEW PLANSAlice's announcement caused her sister to start in surprise. Ruth lookedas if she could not understand, and Alice repeated:"See, the man who fell is Dan Merley--the one who says daddy owes himfive hundred dollars.""I believe you're right!" agreed Russ, who had had a good look at theimpudent fellow the night he invaded the DeVere rooms. "And I know oneof those other men--at least by sight. His name is Jagle. Let's see whatis going on here."Fortunately no very large crowd gathered, so the girls felt it would beproper for them to remain, particularly as the accident was not of adistressing nature.The motorman had stopped his car and had run back to the scene with theconductor."What's the matter here? What did you want to get in the way of the carfor, anyhow?" demanded the motorman. He was nervously excited, and thereaction at finding, after all, he had not killed a man, made him ratherangry."Matter? Matter enough, I should say!" replied one of the men withMerley. "My friend is badly hurt. Someone get an ambulance! Fripp, youcall one.""That was Jagle who spoke," Russ whispered to the girls. "But I don'tknow the other one.""He doesn't seem to be badly hurt," remarked the motorman. Theconductor, with a little pad and pencil, was getting the names ofwitnesses to be used in case suit was brought. This is always done bystreet car companies, in order to protect themselves."Hurt? Of course he's hurt!" exclaimed the man Russ called Jagle. "Seethat cut on his head!"There was a slight abrasion on Merley's forehead, but it did not seem atall serious."Aren't you hurt, Dan?" asked Jagle."Of course I am!" was the answer. "I'm hurt bad, too. Get me home, Jim.""If he's hurt the best place for him is a hospital," remarked themotorman. "But I can't see where he's hurt.""I can't walk, I tell you," whined Merley, and he attempted to get up,but fell back. One of his friends caught him in his arms."There, you see! Of course he's hurt!" declared Jagle. "Go call anambulance, Fripp.""I'll get an ambulance if he really needs one," spoke a policeman, whohad just come up on seeing the crowd. "Where are you hurt?""Something's the matter with my legs," declared Merley. "I can't use myright one, and the left one is hurt, too. My foot got caught between therail and a piece of ice, and I couldn't get loose. My friends tried tohelp me, but they couldn't get me away in time. I'm hurt, and I'm hurtbad, I tell you! I think one of my legs must be run over.""Nothing like that!" declared the motorman. "There's been no legs runover by my car!"That was very evident."Get me away from here," groaned Merley."Well, if you're really hurt I'll call an ambulance and have you takento the hospital," offered the policeman as he went to turn in a call."I sure am hurt," insisted Merley. "Why, I can hardly move now," and heseemed to stiffen all over, though there was no visible sign of injury."Why doesn't someone get a doctor?" a boy in the crowd asked."There'll be one in de hurry-up wagon!" exclaimed another urchin. "Afeller in a white suit--dem's doctors. I know, cause me fadder was in de'ospital onct."Merley's two friends carried him to a drug store not far from the sceneof the accident. Ruth and Alice shrank back as he was borne past them,for they feared he might recognize them, and cause a scene. But if hesaw them, which is doubtful, he gave no sign."Here comes de hurry-up wagon!" cried the lad who had thus designatedthe ambulance. "Let's see 'em shove him on de stretcher! Say dis isgreat!""I think we had better be going, Alice, dear," said Ruth. "Daddywouldn't like us to be in this crowd.""Oh, I want to stay and see what happens. Besides, it might beimportant," Alice objected. "This is Dan Merley, who might make troublefor papa. We ought to see what happens to him. I think that wholeaccident was queer. He didn't seem to be hit at all, and yet he says hecan't move. We ought to stay.""If you want to go, I'll stay and let you know what happens," offeredRuss. "I don't mind.""Perhaps that would be best," said Ruth."All right," agreed Alice, and she and her sister, with a last look atthe crowd around the ambulance, started for their apartment.Russ came along a little later."What happened?" asked Ruth, when he had knocked on the door of theirhall and had been admitted."Not much," he replied. "They took Merley home, instead of to ahospital. He wouldn't go to an institution, he said.""Did those other two men go with him?" asked Alice."Who, Fripp and Jagle? No, they wouldn't be allowed to ride on theambulance. But they got a taxicab and went off in that. I heard Jaglesay to the ambulance surgeon, that he was a doctor, and that he'd attendhis friend when he got him home.""Is Jagle a doctor?" asked Alice. "He didn't look like one.""He's a _sort_ of doctor," Russ replied. "I think he's a quack, myself.I wouldn't have him for a sick cat. But he calls himself a doctor andsurgeon. So that's all that happened.""It was enough, anyhow," remarked Ruth. "I don't like to see anybodyhurt.""I'm not so sure that fellow _was_ hurt," said Russ, slowly."What do you mean?" Alice asked, curiously."Well, he might have _imagined_ he was. I guess he was pretty wellscared at seeing that car come down on him. But I watched when he wasput in the ambulance and he seemed as well as either of his friends.Only he kept insisting that he could not walk.""It was certainly a queer accident," said Alice. "But, in spite of thefact that he is a bad man, and wants to make trouble for daddy, I hopehe isn't seriously hurt.""I don't believe it is serious," said Russ. "But it might easily havebeen, though, if he had fallen in front of the car instead of away fromit.""Well, there is nothing that hasn't its good side," remarked Ruth."Emerson's idea of the law of compensation works out very nicely in thiscase.""Kindly translate, sister mine," invited Alice, laughingly."Why, you know Emerson holds that one advantage makes up for eachdefect. In this case Merley has had an accident--a defect. That maycause him to stop annoying daddy--a distinct advantage to us.""Oh, Ruth, how queer you are!" exclaimed Alice with a laugh. "I neverheard of such an idea.""Who was this Emerson--a moving picture fellow?" asked Russ."No, he was a great writer," explained Ruth. "I'll let you take one ofhis books.""I wish you would," said Russ, seriously. "I never had much of a chanceto get an education, but I like to know things.""So do I," agreed Ruth. "I never tire of Emerson."Mr. DeVere was surprised when he heard about the accident to Merley."I can't understand it," said the girls' father. "He must have beenhurt, and yet--er--was he in a sensible condition, Russ?""Oh, yes, he seemed to be himself, all right," the young moving pictureoperator replied, thoughtfully. "I haven't gotten to the bottom of itmyself."And indeed it developed that there was a strange plot back of theaccident--a plot which involved the moving picture girls in an amazingway, as will soon appear.But puzzle over the odd accident as they might, neither Mr. DeVere, hisdaughters, nor Russ could understand what it involved."At any rate, as you say, Ruth," the actor remarked with a smile, "thereis some compensation. He may not annoy me for some time; and,meanwhile, I may think of a plan to prove I really paid that money.""I hope so, Daddy!" she exclaimed. "Is your throat any better?""Yes, much," he replied with a smile. "Dr. Rathby is going to try a newkind of spray treatment, and I had the first one this afternoon. Ithelped me wonderfully.""That's good!" exclaimed Alice.The next day's papers contained a slight reference to the accident. Itwas not important enough to warrant much space, and about all that wassaid was that Merley claimed to have received an injury that made himhelpless, though its nature was a puzzle to the physician sent around bythe street car company."Well, if he's helpless, and the Lord knows I wish that to no man," saidMr. DeVere, reverently, "he will not come here bothering you girlsagain. If he confines his attacks to me I do not so much mind, but hemust leave you alone.""That's what I say!" cried Russ.When Mr. DeVere and his daughters arrived at the moving picture studiothat afternoon, for they were not to report until then, they foundnotices posted, requesting all members of the company to remain afterrehearsal to hear an "important announcement.""I wonder what it can be?" said Ruth."Probably it's about the new plans Mr. Pertell has been working on,"suggested Alice."I think so," Russ said. He knew something of them, but had notpermission to reveal them.And this proved to be the case. After the day's work was ended, and itincluded the filming of several scenes for important dramas, Mr. Pertellcalled his players together, and said:"Ladies and gentlemen--also Tommy and Nellie, for you will be in onthis, I hope--we are going to leave New York City again, and be togetherin a new place to make a series of plays.""Leave New York!" gasped Miss Pennington."I hope we don't go to Oak Farm again!" cried Miss Dixon. "I want to bein some place where I can get a lobster now and then.""There will be no lobsters at Deerfield!" said Mr. Pertell, with asmile, "unless there are some of the canned variety.""How horrid!" complained Miss Pennington."Will there be deers there?" asked Tommy, with big eyes."I think there will, sonny," answered the manager."Reindeers--like Santa Claus has?" little Nellie wanted to know."Well, I guess so!" laughed Mr. Pertell. "At any rate, I plan to takeyou all there.""Where is Deerfield, if one may ask?" inquired Miss Dixon, pertly."Deerfield is a sort of backwoods settlement, in one of our New EnglandStates," explained the manager. "It is rather isolated, but I want to gothere to get some scenes for moving pictures with good snow, and iceeffects as backgrounds.""Are there good hotels there?" Miss Pennington demanded."We are going to stop in a big hunting lodge, that I have hired for theoccasion," Mr. Pertell replied. "I think you will like it very much.""Hold on! One moment!" exclaimed Mr. Sneed, the grouchy actor. "You maycount me out of this! I shall go to no backwoods, in the middle ofwinter, and freeze. I cannot stand the cold. I shall resign at once!""One moment. Before you decide that, I have something else to say toyou," said Mr. Pertell, and there was a smile on his face.CHAPTER VIIOFF TO THE WOODSThe moving picture players looked curiously at the manager, and then atMr. Sneed. They were used to this action on his part, and also on thepart of Mr. Bunn--that of resigning when anything did not suit them. Butmatters with either of them seldom went farther than the mere threat."I know it will not be as pleasant, as regards weather conditions, atElk Lodge, Deerfield, as it was at Oak Farm," said Mr. Pertell. "But thelodge is a big building, very quaint and picturesque, I have been told,and it has all the comforts, and many of the conveniences, of life.There are big, open fireplaces, and plenty of logs to burn. So you willnot freeze.""Open fires are always cold," complained Mr. Sneed. "You roast on oneside, and freeze on the other.""Oh, I think it won't be quite as bad as that," laughed the manager."But that is not all I have to say. In consideration of the fact thatthere will be some inconveniences, in spite of all I can do, I amwilling to make an increase of ten per cent. in the salaries of all ofyou, including Tommy and Nellie," and he smiled at the two children."Oh, goodie! I'm going!" cried the small lad."So'm I," voiced his sister.There was a moment of silence, while all the members of the companylooked at Mr. Sneed, who had raised the first contention. He seemed tothink that it was necessary for him to say something."Ah--ahem!" he began."Yes?" spoke Mr. Pertell, questioningly."In view of all the facts, and er--that I would have to give two weeks'notice, and under all the circumstances, I think--er--I will withdraw myresignation, if you will allow me," the grouchy actor went on, in alofty manner."Ah!" laughed Mr. Pertell. "Then we will consider it settled, and youmay all begin to pack up for Elk Lodge as soon as you please.""When are we to leave?" asked Mr. DeVere."In a few days now. I have one more play I want to stage in New York,and then we will leave for the country where we can study snow and iceeffects to better advantage than here. We want to get out into the open.Russ, I must have a talk with you about films. I think, in view of thefact that the lights out in the open, reflected by the snow, will bevery intense and high, a little change in the film and the stop of thecamera will be necessary.""I think so myself," agreed the young moving picture operator. "In fact,I have been working on a little device that I can attach to our camerasto cut down the amount of light automatically. It consists of a seleniumplate with a battery attachment----""Oh, spare us the dreadful details!" interrupted Miss Pennington, whowas of a rather frivolous nature."Well, there is no longer need of detaining you," spoke Mr. Pertell."Work for the day is over. We will meet again to-morrow and film 'AMother's Sorrow,' and that will be the last New York play for some time.I presume it will take a week to get ready to go to Deerfield, as thereare many details to look after.""Oh, I just can't wait until it's time to go to the backwoods!" criedAlice, as she and Ruth were on their way home that evening. "Aren't youcrazy about it, sister mine?""Well, not exactly _crazy_, Alice. You do use such--er--such strongexpressions!""Well, I have strong feelings, I suppose.""I know, but you must be more--more conservative.""I know you were going to say 'lady-like,' but you didn't dare," laughedAlice."Well, consider it said, my dear," went on Ruth, in all seriousness, forshe felt that she must, in a measure, play the part of a mother to heryounger sister."I don't want to consider anything!" laughed Alice, "except the gloriousfun we are going to have. Oh, Ruth, even the prospect of that dreadfulDan Merley making daddy pay the debt over again can't dampen my spiritsnow. I'm so happy!"She threw her arms about Ruth and attempted a few turns of the one-stepglide."Oh, stop! I'm slipping!" cried Ruth, for the sidewalk was icy. "Alice,let me go!""Not until you take a few more steps! Now dip!""But, Alice! I'm going to fall! I know I am! There! I told you----"But Ruth did not get a chance to use the favorite expression of Mr.Sneed, if such was her intention. For she really was about to fall whena young man, who was passing, caught her, and saved her from a tumble."Oh!" she gasped, in confusion, as she recovered her balance."I beg your pardon," laughed the young fellow, with sparkling eyes."I should beg yours!" faltered Ruth, with a blush."It was all my fault--I wanted her to dance!" cried Alice, willing toaccept her share of the blame."Yes, this weather makes one feel like dancing," the young fellowagreed, and then with a bow he passed on."Alice how could you?" cried Ruth."How could I what?""Make me do that.""I didn't mean to. Really, he was nice; wasn't he? And say, did younotice his eyes?""Oh, Alice, you are hopeless!" and Ruth had to laugh.The two moving picture girls reached home without further mishap, ifmishap that could be called, though all the way Alice insisted onwaltzing about happily, and trying in vain to get Ruth to join in, andtry the new steps. Passersby more than once turned to look at the twopretty girls, who made a most attractive picture.The drama next day was successfully filmed and then followed a sort ofweek's vacation, while the picture players prepared for the trip to thewoods.They were to go by train to Hampton Junction, the nearest station toDeerfield. This last was only a small settlement once the center of animportant lumber industry, but now turned into a hunting preserve, ownedby a number of rich men. As the Lodge was not in use this season, Mr.Pertell had engaged it for his company.In due time the baggage was all packed, the various "properties" hadbeen shipped by Pop Snooks and everything was ready for the trip. Thejourney from the railroad station at Hampton Junction to Elk Lodge, inDeerfield, was to be made in big four-horse sleds, several of themhaving been engaged, for it was reported that the snow was deep in thewoods. Winter had set in with all its severity there.Finally all the members of the company were gathered at the GrandCentral Terminal, New York. The players attracted considerableattention, for there was that air of the theater about them which alwaysseems so fascinating to the outsider, who knows so little of the reallyhard work that goes on behind the footlights. Most of the glitter is infront, in spite of appearances."Why, it's like setting off for Oak Farm!" remarked Alice, as she stoodbeside her sister, Paul and Russ."Only there isn't any mystery in prospect," spoke Paul. "I wonder howthe Apgars are getting on, now that their farm is safe?""They're probably sitting about a warm fire, talking about it," Russsaid."There may be just as much of a mystery in the backwoods as there was atOak Farm, if we can only come across it," suggested Alice. "I wish wecould discover something queer.""Oh, Alice!" protested Ruth.Mr. Sneed was observed to be walking about, peering at the various signboards on which the destination of trains was given."What are you looking for?" asked Russ."I want to see that we don't start out on track thirteen as we did whenwe went to Oak Farm, and had the wreck," the actor answered. "I've hadenough of hoodoos.""You're all right this time--we leave from track twenty-seven," calledMr. Pertell. "All aboard for Deerfield and Elk Lodge!"CHAPTER VIIIA BREAKDOWNThere was snow everywhere. Never could Ruth, Alice, and the othermembers of the Comet Film Company remember so much at one time. Theyseemed to have entered the Polar regions.Along the tracks of the railroad the white flakes were piled in deepdrifts, and when they swept out from a patch of woodland, and had a viewacross the fields, or down into some valley, they could see a long,unbroken stretch of white."It sure is some snow," observed Russ, who sat in the seat with Ruth,while Paul had pre-empted a place beside Alice. This last in spite ofthe fact that Miss Dixon invitingly had a seat ready for the young actorbeside herself. But she was forced to be content with a novel forcompanionship."Yes, and we're going to get more snow," remarked Mr. Sneed, who satbehind Russ. "We'll get so much that the train will be delayed, andwe'll have to stay on it all night; that's what will happen.""Und ve vill starf den; ain't dot so?" inquired Mr. Switzer, with ajolly laugh from across the aisle. "Ve vill starf alretty; vill ve not,mine gloomy friendt?""We sure will," predicted the grouch of the company. "They took thedining car off at the last station, and I understand there isn't anotherone to be had until we get to Hampton Junction. We sure will starve!""Ha! Dot is vot ve vill _not_ do!" laughed Mr. Switzer, with conviction."See, I haf alretty t'ought of dot, und I haf provided. Here arepretzels!" and he produced a large bag of them from his grip. "Ve villnot starf!""Ha! Pretzels!" scoffed Mr. Sneed. "I never eat them!""Maybe you vill before you starf!" chuckled Mr. Switzer, as he replacedthem. "I like dem much!"The other members of the company laughed--all but Mr. Sneed andWellington Bunn. The former went forward to consult a brakeman as to theprospects of the train becoming snowbound, while Mr. Bunn, who wore histall hat, and was bundled up in a fur coat, huddled close to the window,and doubtless dreamed of the days when he had played Shakespeareanr?les; and wondered if he would play them again.The train went on, not that any great speed was attained, for the gradewas up hill, and there had been heavy storms. There was also theprospect of more snow, and this, amid the rugged hills of New England,was not reassuring."But we expect hard weather up here," said Mr. Pertell to his company."The more snow and ice we have, the better pictures we can get.""That's right!" agreed Russ."Humph! I'm beginning to wish I hadn't come," growled Mr. Sneed, who hadreceived information from a brakeman to the effect that trains wereoften snowbound in that part of the State.A few feathery flakes began falling now, and there was the promise ofmore in the clouds overhead, and in the sighing of the North wind."Does your throat hurt you much, Daddy?" asked Ruth, as she noticed herfather wrapping a silk handkerchief closer about his neck."Just a little; I think it is the unusual cold," he replied. "But I donot mind it. The air is sharper here than in New York; but it is drier.Perhaps it may do me good. I think I will use my spray," and he got outhis atomizer.There were not many passengers beside the members of the filmtheatrical company in the car in which Ruth and her sister rode. Amongthem, however, were two young ladies, about the age of Alice, and asRuth went down the aisle once, to get a drink of water, she noted thatone of the strangers appeared to be ill."Pardon me," spoke Ruth, with ready sympathy, "but can I do anything tohelp you?""She has a bad headache," replied the other. "My sister always gets onewhen she travels. Fortunately we have not much farther to go.""Oh, Helen, I shall be so glad when we get there," said the sufferingone."Never mind, Mabel, we will soon be there," soothed the other."If you don't mind--I'd like to give you my smelling salts," offeredRuth. "They always help me when I have a headache, which is seldom, I'mglad to say.""I wish I could say that," murmured the afflicted one."Suppose you let me give the bottle to you," suggested Ruth. "I'll havemy sister bring some spirits of cologne, too. Then you can bathe yourhead.""You are very kind," responded the other.Soon the four girls were in the ladies' compartment of the parlor car inwhich the picture company was traveling. There was a lounge there, andon this the girl called Mabel was soon receiving the ministrations ofthe others.Her head was bathed in the fragrant cologne, and the use of the smellingsalts relieved the slight feeling of indisposition that accompanied theheadache."I feel so much better now," she declared, after a little. "I--I think Icould sleep.""That would be the best thing for you, my dear," said Ruth, as shesmoothed her hair. "Come," she whispered to the others, "we will sitback here and let her rest," and she motioned them to come into thecurtained-off recess of the compartment.There the other girl said that she and her sister were on their way tovisit relatives over the holidays. They were Mabel and Helen Madison, ofNew York."And right after Christmas we're going to Florida," Helen confided toRuth and Alice."Oh, it must be lovely there, under the palms!" exclaimed the latter. "Ido so want to go.""It is quite a contrast to this, I should imagine," remarked Ruth, asshe gazed out of the window on the snowy scene."Does your company ever get as far as Florida?" asked Helen, for Ruthand Alice had told her their profession."We haven't yet," replied Ruth, "though once, when we were small, daddyplayed in St. Augustine, and we were there. But I don't rememberanything about it.""We are going to a little resort on Lake Kissimmee," said Helen Madison."Perhaps we may see you there, if you ever make pictures in Florida.""I hardly think we are going that far," observed Ruth. "But if we do weshall look for you."Ruth little realized then how prophetic her words were, nor how she andAlice would actually "look" for the two girls.A little later Mabel awakened from a doze, and announced that her headfelt much better. Then, as it would soon be time for her and her sisterto get off, for they were nearing their destination, they went back totheir seats to get their luggage in readiness."I like them; don't you?" asked Alice, as she and Ruth rejoined theirfriends."Indeed I do! They seem very sweet girls. I would like to meet themagain.""So would I. Perhaps we shall. It would be lovely if we could go toFlorida, after our winter work is over. I'm going to ask Mr. Pertell ifthere's any likelihood of our doing so."But Alice did not get the opportunity just then, as she and Ruth went tothe door to bid their new girl acquaintances good-bye. Then came theannouncement that in a short time Hampton Junction would be reached."Better be getting your possessions together," advised Mr. Pertell tohis company. "It is getting late and I don't want to have you travel toomuch after dark."The train came to a stop at Hampton Junction, and from the car emergedthe picture players. Ranged alongside the small building that served asthe depot were several large sleighs, known in that country as "pungs,"the bodies being filled with clean straw. There were four horses toeach, and the jingle of their bells made music on the wintry air."Oh, we're going to have a regular straw ride!" cried Alice, clappingher hands at the sight of the comfortable-looking sleighs. "Isn't thisjolly, Ruth?""I'm sure it will be, yes. Come now, have you everything?""Everything, and more too!""Daddy, are you all right?" went on Ruth, for she had gotten into thehabit, of late, of looking after her father, who seemed to lean on hermore and more as she grew older."Everything, daughter," he replied. "And my throat feels much better. Ithink the cold air is doing it good.""That's fine!" she laughed, happily. "Now I wonder which of thesesleighs is ours?""I'll tell you in a minute," said Mr. Pertell. "I want to see thelodge-keeper. Oh, there he is! Hello, Jake Macksey!" he called to thesturdy man, in big boots, who was stalking about among the sleds, "iseverything all right for us?""Everything, Mr. Pertell," was the hearty answer. "We'll have you out toElk Lodge in a jiffy. My wife has got a lot of stuff cooked up, for shethought you'd be hungry.""Indeed we are!" grumbled Mr. Sneed."But if dere iss stuff cooked I can safe mine pretzels!" chuckled Mr.Switzer.The baggage was stowed in one sled, and in the others the members of thepicture company distributed themselves."All right?" asked Jake Macksey, who was a veteran guide and hunter, andin charge of Elk Lodge."All ready!" answered Mr. Pertell."Drive lively now, boys!" called the hunter. "It's getting late, andwill soon be dark, and the roads aren't any too good.""Oh my!" groaned Mr. Sneed. "I'm sure something will happen!"With cracks of the whips, and a jingling of sleighbells, the littlecavalcade started off. The gloom settled slowly down, but Ruth and Alicehelped dispel it by singing lively songs. Over the snow-covered roadthey went, now on a comparatively level place, and again down into somehollow where the drifts were deep. The horses pulled nobly.They came to a narrow place in the road, where the snow was piled highon either side. There was room for but one sled at a time."I hope we don't meet anyone here," said Mr. Macksey. "If they do we'llhave a hard job passing. G'lang there!" he called to his horses.They were half-way through the snow defile, when the leading sleigh, inwhich rode Ruth and Alice, swerved to one side. There was a crashingsound, a splintering of wood, and the two forward horses went down in aheap."Whoa! Whoa!" called Mr. Macksey, as he reined in the others."What's happened?" asked Mr. DeVere."Some sort of a breakdown," answered the hunter."Serious?" the actor wanted to know, trying to peer ahead in the gloom."I can't tell yet," was the answer. "Here, can someone hold the reinswhile I get out?" he asked."I will," offered Russ, and he held the rear team. The horses who hadfallen had struggled to their feet and were quiet now. But the frontpart of the sled seemed to have sagged into the snow."I thought so!" exclaimed Mr. Macksey, as he got up after peering underthe vehicle. "No going on like this.""What happened?" asked Alice."One of the forward runners has broken. There must have been a defect init I didn't notice.""Can't we go on?" asked Mr. Sneed."Not very well," was the answer. "We've broken down, and unfortunatelywe're the leading sleigh. I don't know how to get the others past it.""Well, I knew something would happen," sighed the human grouch. And heseemed quite gratified that his prediction had been verified.CHAPTER IXTHE BLIZZARDThe two other sleds had, as a matter of necessity, come to a halt behindthe first one. The defile in the snow was so narrow that there could beno passing. Those who had broken the road through the drifts had notbeen wise enough to make a wide path, and now the consequences must betaken.In fact it would have been a little difficult to make at this point apath wide enough for two sleighs. The road went between two rocky walls,and though in the summer, when there was no snow, two vehicles couldsqueeze past, in the winter the piling up of the snow on either sidemade an almost impassable barrier.To turn out to right or left was out of the question, for the snow wasso deep that the horses would have floundered helplessly in it."Well, what's to be done?" asked Mr. DeVere, as he buttoned his coatcollar up around his neck, and looked at his two daughters."I'm afraid I'll have to ask you all to get out," said Mr. Macksey. "Iwant to get a better look at that broken runner, and see if it'spossible to mend it. Bring up a lantern," he called to one of thedrivers of the other sleds. "We'll soon need it."The moving picture players in the broken-down sled piled out into thesnow. Fortunately they had come prepared for rough weather, and worestout shoes. Ruth and Alice, as well as Russ and Paul, laughed at theplight, and Mr. Switzer, with a chuckle, exclaimed:"Ha! Maybe mine pretzels vill come in useful after all!""That's no joke--maybe they will," observed Mr. Sneed, gloomily. "We mayhave to stay here all night.""Oh, we could walk to Elk Lodge if we had to," put in Mr. Macksey, as hetook the lantern which the other driver brought up."It wouldn't be very pleasant," replied Mr. Sneed, "with darkness soonto be here, and a storm coming up.""You're right about the storm, I'm afraid," answered the veteran hunter."I don't like the looks of the weather a bit. And it sure will be darksoon. But we'll have a look at this sled," he went on. "Give me a handhere, Tom and Dick," he called to the other drivers, who had left theirteams.They managed to prop up the sled, so a better view could be had of theforward runner. Then the extent of the damage was made plain. One wholeside had given way, and was useless. It could not even be patched up."Too bad!" declared the hunter. "Now, if it had only been the rear sledit wouldn't worry me so."For then we could pile the stuff from the back sled into the others,and go on, even if we were a bit crowded. But with the front sledblocking this narrow road, I don't see how we are to go on.""If we could only jump the two rear sleds over this broken one, it wouldbe all right," said Alice. "It's like one of those moving block puzzles,where you try to get the squares in a certain order without lifting anyof them out.""That's it," agreed Mr. Macksey. "But it's no easy matter to jump twobig sleds, and eight horses, over another sled and four horses. I'veplayed checkers, but never like that," he added."But we must do something," insisted Mr. Pertell. "I can't have mycompany out like this all night. We must get on to Elk Lodge, somehow.""Well, I don't see how you're going to do it," responded the hunter."You could walk, of course; but you couldn't take your baggage, and youwouldn't like that.""Walk? Never! I protest against that!" exclaimed Mr. Bunn."'He doth protest too much!'" quoted Paul, in a low voice. "Come on,Ruth--Alice--shall we walk?""I'd like to do it--I'm getting cold standing here," cried Alice,stamping her feet on the edge of the road. "Will you, Ruth?""I'm afraid we'd better not--at least until we talk to daddy, my dear,"was the low-voiced answer. "Perhaps they can get the sled fixed."But it did not seem so, for Mr. Macksey, with a puzzled look on hisface, was talking earnestly to the two drivers. The accident hadhappened at a most unfortunate time and place."We can't even turn around and go back a different road, the way it is,"said the hunter. "There isn't room to turn, and everybody knows youcan't back a pung very far before getting stuck.""Then what are we to do?" asked Mr. Pertell.The hunter did not answer for a minute. Then he said:"Well, we've got twelve horses here, and I can manage to squeeze the tworear teams past the stalled sled. Then if you'd like to take chancesriding them to Elk Lodge----""Never!" cried Mr. Bunn, with lively recollections of a time he hadridden a mule at Oak Farm. "I shall stay here forever, first!""Well, if you don't want to do that," said Mr. Macksey, and to tell thetruth few members of the company seemed in favor of the idea, "if youdon't want to do that I might ride on ahead and get a spare sleigh Ihave at the Lodge. I could get back here before very late, and we'd gethome sooner or later.""And we would have to stay here?" asked Mr. DeVere."I see no help for it. There are plenty of blankets in the sleds, andyou can huddle down in the straw and keep warm. I'll get back as soon asI can."There really seemed nothing else to do, and, after talking it over, thisplan was practically decided on. But something happened to change it.The wind had been rising constantly, and the snow was ever fallingthicker and faster. The players could see only a little way ahead nowfrom the place where they were stalled."This would make a good film, if you could get it," remarked Paul toRuss."Too dark," replied the camera operator. "Do you know, I don't likethis," he went on in a low voice to the young actor."You don't like what?" Paul wanted to know."The way this weather is acting. I think there's going to be a bigstorm, and here we are, stalled out in the open. It will be hard for thegirls and the women, to say nothing of Tommy and Nellie.""That's what it will, Russ; but what can be done?"As he spoke there came a sudden fierce rush of wind and a flurry ofsnow. It took the breaths of all, and instinctively they turned from it,for the snow stung their faces. The horses, too, disliked to face thestinging blast, and shifted their places."Get behind such shelter as you can!" cried Mr. Macksey, above the roarof the storm. "This is a genuine blizzard and it's death to beunprotected. Get into the sleds, and cover up with the blankets. I'llhave to go for help!"CHAPTER XAT ELK LODGEThe warning by Mr. Macksey, no less than the sudden blast of the storm,struck terror to the hearts of not only the moving picture girls, but toall the other players. For it was something to which they were notused--that terrible sweep of wind and blinding snow.There had been heavy storms in New York, but there the big buildings cutoff the force of the wind, except perhaps in some street canyon. But inthe backwoods, on this stretch of open fields, there was no protectionexcept that furnished by nature; or, in this case, by the sleds.For a moment after the veteran hunter had called his warning no onemoved. They all seemed paralyzed by fear. Then Mr. Macksey called again:"Into shelter, every one of you! What do you mean; standing there inthis storm? Get under the blankets--crouch down at the side of thesleds. I'll go for help.""But you--you'll freeze to death--I can't permit you to go!" protestedMr. Pertell, yelling the words into the other's ear, to make himselfheard above the storm."No, I'm used to this sort of thing!" the hunter replied. "I know ashort cut to the lodge, and I can protect myself against the wind. I'llgo.""I don't like it!" repeated Mr. Pertell, while Mr. Macksey was forcinghim back toward the protecting sled.Meanwhile the others, now, if never before, feeling the need of shelter,were struggling through the blinding snow toward the broken sled, fromwhich they had wandered a short time before while listening to theattempts made at solving the problem of getting on."Isn't this awful!" gasped Ruth, as she clung to Alice."Awful? It's just glorious!" cried the young girl. "I wouldn't havemissed it for worlds.""Oh, Alice, how can you say so? We may all die in this terrible storm!""I'm not going to think anything of the kind!" returned the other."We'll get out of it, somehow, and laugh at ourselves afterward forbeing so silly as to be afraid. Oh, this is great!"She was really glorying in the fierce outburst of nature. Perhaps shedid not understand, or appreciate, it, for she had never seen anythinglike it before, and in this case ignorance might have been akin tobliss.But the others, especially the drivers of the two sleds, with anxiouslooks on their cold faces, were trying to seek the shelter they so muchneeded, and also look to the restless horses. For the animals were nowalmost frantic with their desire to get away from that cutting wind andstinging snow."Unhitch 'em all!" roared Mr. Macksey to his men. "Take the horses fromthe sleds and get 'em back of as much shelter as you can find. Otherwisethey may bolt and upset something. I'll take old Bald-face, and see if Ican't get some kind of help."Though what sort of aid he could bring to the picture actors in thistime of storm and stress he hardly knew. But he was not going to give upwithout trying.Ruth and Alice were trying to struggle back through the snow to theirsled, and not making very successful work of it, when they felt arms attheir sides helping them, and Russ and Paul came along."Fierce; isn't it!" cried Russ in Ruth's ear."Awful, and yet this sister of mine pretends that she likes it.""I do!" declared Alice. "It's glorious. I can't really believe it's ablizzard.""It's the beginning of one, though," Paul assured her. "I hear thedrivers saying so. Their blizzards up here start in with a squall likethis, and soon develop into a bad storm. This isn't at its worst yet.""Well, I hope I see the worst of it!" said Alice."Oh, how can you so tempt fate?" asked Ruth, seriously."I'm not tempting fate, but I mean I do like to see a great storm--thatis, if I'm protected, as I am now," and Alice laughed through thewhirling snow into Paul's face, for he had wrapped a fold of his bigulster about her."Oh, dear!" sighed Ruth."What's the matter?" asked Russ, anxiously."I'm so worried.""Don't be--yet," he said, reassuringly."But we may be snowed in here for a week!""Never mind--Mr. Switzer still has his pretzels, I believe."She could not help laughing, in spite of their distress."Oh, poor daddy!" cried Alice, as she reached the sled, and Paulprepared to help her in, "he is trying to protect his poor throat." Mr.DeVere wore a heavy coat, the collar of which he had turned up, but eventhis seemed little protection, and he was now tying a silk handkerchiefabout his collar."I have the very thing for him!" cried Paul, taking off a muffler hewore."Oh, but you'll need that!" protested Alice, quickly."Not a bit of it--I'm as warm as toast," he answered. "Here you are,sir!" he called to Mr. DeVere, and when the latter, after a weakresistance, had accepted it (for he was really suffering from the cold),Alice thanked Paul with a look that more than repaid him for hisknightly self-sacrifice.The players were by now in the sled, which, in its damaged condition,had been let down as nearly level as possible. The blankets were pulledup over the side, and Mr. Macksey was preparing to unhitch one of thehorses, and set off for help. Then one of the drivers gave a sudden cry,and came running up to his employer."Look!" he shouted. "The wind's shifted. It's blowing right across thetop of this cut now. We'll be protected down here!"This was indeed true. At the beginning of the squall, which was workingup to a blizzard, the wind had swept up the canyon-like defile betweenthe hills of earth and snow. But now the direction of the gale hadshifted and was sweeping across the top of the depression. Thus those atthe bottom were, in a measure, protected from the blast."By hickory!" exclaimed Mr. Macksey, "that's right. The wind haschanged. Folks, you'll be all right for a while down here, until I canget help.""Must you go?" asked Ruth, for now they could talk with more ease.Indeed, so fiercely was the snow sweeping across the top of the gulchthat little of it fell into the depression."Oh, sure, I've got to get help," the hunter said. "You folks can't stayhere all night, even if the wind continues to blow across the top, whichmakes it much better.""Indeed and I will not stay here all night!" protested Mr. Bunn. "I moststrenuously object to it.""And so do I!" growled Mr. Sneed. "There is no need of it. I might haveknown something unpleasant would happen. I had a feeling in my bonesthat it would.""Well, you'll have a freezing feeling in your bones if I don't gethelp," observed Mr. Macksey, grimly."And I am hungry, too," went on Mr. Sneed. "Why was not food broughtwith us in anticipation of this emergency?""Haf a pretzel!" offered Mr. Switzer, holding one out."Away with the vile thing!" snapped Mr. Sneed.Mr. Macksey was about to leap on the back of the horse and start off,when the same driver who had noticed the change in the wind called out:"I say, Mr. Macksey, I have a plan.""What is it?""Maybe you won't have to go for help, after all. Why can't we take theforward bob from under the rear sled and put it in place of the brokenone on the first sled? We can easily pass the bob by the second sledeven if the place is narrow.""By hickory! Why didn't you think of that before?" demanded the hunter."Of course we can do it! Lively now, and we'll make the change. Got tobe quick, or it'll be pitch dark."It would have been very dark long ago had it not been for the snow,which gave a sort of reflected light."Come on!" cried Mr. Macksey. "We'll make the change. I guess I'll haveto ask you folks to get out again," he said to the players in the firstsled. "But it won't be for long. We'll have a good runner in place ofthe broken one, and then we can pile into two sleds and get into ElkLodge. We'll leave the last sled until to-morrow.""But what about our baggage?" asked Miss Pennington. "That is in therear sled. Can we take that with us?""Not all of it," answered the hunter, "but you can crowd in as much aspossible. The rest can wait.""I want _all_ of mine," declared the former vaudeville actress."So do I!" cried Miss Dixon."You'll be lucky if you get in out of this storm," said Mr. Pertellreprovingly, "to say nothing about baggage. Do the best you can, Mr.Macksey.""I will. Come now, men, lively!"It took some little time to make the change, but finally the work wasdone.The broken runner was cast aside, and there were now two good sleds,one ahead of the other in the snowy defile. As much of the neededbaggage as possible was transferred, and the four horses that had beenon the rear sled were brought up and hitched to the remaining sleds--twoto each so that each conveyance now had six animals attached to it."And by hickory!" exclaimed Mr. Macksey, that appearing to be hisfavorite expression, "By hickory, we'll need 'em all!"They were now ready to set forth, and all rather dreaded going out intothe open again, for the defile offered a good shelter from the storm.But it had to be done, for it was out of the question to stay there allnight."Go 'long!" called the hunter, as he shook the long reins of his sixhorses, and cracked the whip with a report like a pistol. But the lashdid not fall on the backs of the ready animals. Mr. Macksey never beathis horses--they were willing enough without that.Lanterns had been lighted and hung on the sleds, to shed their warningrays through the storm. They now gleamed fitfully through thefast-falling snow."Are you feeling better now, Daddy?" asked Ruth of her father, as sheglanced anxiously at him."Much better, yes. I am afraid I ought to give you back your muffler,Paul," he added."No indeed--please keep it," begged the young actor.Alice reached beneath the blanket and pressed his hand in appreciation."Thanks," he laughed."It is I who thank you," she returned, softly.They were now out in the open road, and the fury of the blast struckthem with all its cruel force."Keep covered up!" shouted Mr. Macksey, through the visor of his cap,which was pulled down over his face. "We'll be there pretty soon."On through the drifts plunged the straining horses. It was all six ofthem could do, pull as they might, to make their way. How cruelly thewind cut, and how the snow flakes stung! Soft as they really were, thewind gave them the feeling of pieces of sand and stone.On through the storm went the delayed party. And then, when each one, inspite of his or her fortitude, was almost giving up in despair at thecold and the anxiety Mr. Macksey shouted out;"Whoa! Here we are! All out for Elk Lodge!"CHAPTER XITHROUGH THE ICEWarming, comforting beams of light shone from a large, low building setback from the road in a little clearing of the woods. It was too dark tosee more than this--that the structure offered shelter, warmth andlight. Yes, and something else, for there was borne on the wings of thewind the most delicious odor--the odor of supper."Pile out, folks! Pile out!" cried the genial old hunter. "Here we are!At Elk Lodge! No more storm! No more cold! Get inside to the blaze. Ireckon mother's about given us up; but we're here, and we won't do athing to her cooking! Pile out!"It was an invitation that needed no repetition. It was greeted with amerry shout, even Mr. Sneed, the grouch, condescending to say:"Ah, that sounds good!""Ha! Den if dere iss food to eat I dinks me dot I don't need to eat mypretzels. I can safe dem for annoder time!" cried Mr. Switzer, as hegot out.There was a laugh at this, and it was added to when Mr. Bunn called outin his deepest tragic voice:"Ha! Someone has my silk hat!"For he had persisted in wearing that in the storm, though it was mostuncomfortable."It is gone!" he added. "Stolen, mayhap. Has anyone seen it?""Probably blew off," said Russ. "We'll find it--when the snow melts!"Wellington Bunn groaned--again tragically."I'll get you another," offered Mr. Pertell, generously."Come on, folks! Pile out!" cried Mr. Macksey again."I'm so stiff I can hardly move!" declared Ruth."So am I," added Alice. "Oh, but it's good to be here!""I thought you liked the storm so," observed Ruth."I do, but I like supper too, and I think it must be ready."Out of the sleds climbed the cold and cramped picture players, allthought of the fierce storm now forgotten."Go right in," invited Mr. Macksey. "Supper's waiting!""Welcome to Elk Lodge!" called a motherly voice, and Mrs. Mackseyappeared in the open door of the main corridor. "Come right in!"They were glad enough to do it."I don't know any of you, except Russ and Mr. Pertell," she said, forthe manager and his helper had paid a visit to the place sometime beforeto make arrangements about using it."You'll soon know all of 'em," declared Mr. Pertell with a laugh. "I'llintroduce you," which he quickly did."Now then, I expect you'll want to wash up," went on the hunter's wife."I'll have the girl show you to your different rooms, and then you cancome down to supper. It's been waiting. What kept you? I'll have to askyou folks because it's like pulling teeth to get any news out of myhusband. What happened?""A breakdown," explained Ruth, who took an instant liking to motherlyMrs. Macksey. "Oh, we had such a time!""Such a glorious time!" supplemented Alice."Here's a girl who evidently likes outdoors," laughed the hunter's wife."Indeed I do!" cried Alice.There was some little confusion, getting the players to their rooms,because of the lateness of the arrival, but finally each one was in hisor her appointed apartment, and trying to get settled. The rooms weresmall but comfortable, and the hunters who had built the lodge forthemselves had provided many comforts."There ought to be a private bath for each one," declared MissPennington, as she surveyed her room."Indeed there ought," agreed her friend Miss Dixon. "I think this placeis horrid!""How thoughtless and selfish they are," said Ruth, who shared a roomwith Alice."Aren't they! I think it's lovely here. Oh, but I am so hungry!""So am I, dear.""Glad to hear it for once, Ruth. Usually you have so little appetitethat one would think you were in love.""Silly! I'm going to eat to-night anyhow.""Does that mean you are _not_ in love?""Silly!" cried Ruth again, but that was all she answered.What a glorious and home-like place Elk Lodge was! Yes, even better thanthe best home the moving picture girls had known most of their lives,for they had spent part of the time boarding, as their father traveledabout with his theatrical company, and who can compare a home to aboarding house?Down in the big living room a fire burned and crackled, and gave outspicy odors on the great hearth that took in logs six feet long. And howcheerfully and ruddily the blaze shone out! It mellowed and cheeredeveryone. Even Mr. Sneed smiled, and stretched out his hands to theleaping flames.As Ruth and Alice were about to go down, having called to their fatheracross the hall that they were ready for him, there came a knock ontheir door."Come in!" invited Ruth."Sorry to trouble you," spoke Miss Pennington, "but have you any coldcream and--er--powder? Our things were left in the other sled--I meanall of those things, and Laura and I can't--we simply can't get alongwithout them.""I have cold cream," said Alice. "But powder--that is unless it's talcumor rice----""That will have to do I guess," sighed the vaudeville actress. "But Idid hope you had a bit of rouge, I'm so pale!""Never use it!" said Alice quickly. Too quickly, hospitable Ruththought, for, though she decried the use of "paint," she would not berude to a guest, and, under these circumstances Miss Pennington was aguest."You don't need it," the caller said, with a glance at Alice's glowingcheeks, to whom the wind and snow had presented two damask spots thatwere most becoming."The weather is very chapping to my face," the former vaudeville actresswent on. "I really must have something," and she departed with the coldcream and some harmless rice powder, which Ruth and Alice usedjudiciously and sparingly, and only when needed.The fine supper, late as it was, necessarily, was enjoyed to the utmost.It was bountiful and good, and though at first Miss Pennington and MissDixon were inclined to sniff at the lack of "courses," and the absenceof lobster, it was noticed that they ate heartily."There is only one thing more I want," sighed Paul, as he leaned back inhis chair."What, pray? It seems to me, and I have been watching you, that you havehad about all that is good for you," laughed Alice. "I have seen you getthree separate and distinct helpings of fried chicken.""Oh, I didn't mean anything more to eat," he said, quickly, "and if youare going to watch me so closely I shall have to cut down my rations, Ifear. What I meant was that I would like a moving picture of thissupper. It has memories that long will linger, but I fain would have asouvenir of it.""Be careful that you don't get indigestion as a souvenir," laughedAlice, as he followed her sister from the table.The dining room opened off the great living apartment with thatwonderful fire, and following the meal all the members of the companygathered about the hearth.Outside the storm still raged, and Mr. Macksey, who came in from havingwith his men, put away the horses, reported that the blizzard wasgrowing worse."It's a good thing we thought of changing the bobs and coming on," hesaid. "Otherwise we might be there yet.""What really happened?" asked his wife. "I was telling one of the youngladies that it was like pulling teeth to get any news out of you.""Oh, we just had a little breakdown," he said. "Now, folks, just makeyourselves at home. Go to bed when you like, get up when you please.I'll try and get the rest of your baggage here some time to-morrow, ifthis storm lets up.""I hope you do get it," complained Miss Pennington."Selfish thing!" whispered Alice. "All she wants is her paint!""Hush," cautioned Ruth. "She'll hear you!""I don't care," voiced her sister.They talked of many things as they sat about the fire, and then Mr.Pertell said:"We will film no dramas while the storm continues, but as soon as we canget out on the ice I want to start one.""Is there skating about here?" asked Alice, who was very fond of thesport."There's a fine lake back of the lodge," replied Mr. Macksey, "and assoon as the storm lets up I'll have the men clear a place of snow, andyou can have all the fun you want.""Oh, joy!" cried Alice."Save me the first skate," whispered Paul to her, and she noddedacquiescence.Mr. Pertell briefly outlined the drama he expected to film on the ice,and then, after a little more talk, every one voted that bed was thebest place in the world. For the wind had made them all sleepy, and theywere tired out from the storm and their long journey.Alice and Ruth went up to their room. Alice pulled aside the curtainfrom the window and looked out on a scene of swirling whiteness. Theflakes dashed against the pane as though knocking for admission."It's a terrible night," said Ruth, with a little shiver."Well, much as I like weather, I wouldn't want to be out in it long,"Alice confessed. "Elk Lodge is a very good place in a blizzard.""Suppose we got snowed in?" asked Ruth, apprehensively."Then we'll dig our way out--simple answer. Oh dear!" and Alice yawnedluxuriously, if not politely, showing her pretty teeth.In spite of the portentous nature of the storm, it was not fully borneout, and morning saw the sun shining on the piles of snow that hadfallen. There had been a considerable quantity sifted down on what wasalready about Elk Lodge, but there was not enough to hinder traffic forthe sturdy lumbermen and hunters of that region.The wind had died down, and it was not cold, so when Mr. Mackseyannounced that he was going back after the broken-down sleigh, Ruth andAlice asked permission to accompany him.Before starting off Mr. Macksey had set a gang of men, hired for theoccasion, to scraping the snow off the frozen lake, and when Ruth andAlice came back they found several of the picture players skating,while Russ was getting ready to film one of the first scenes of thedrama."You're in this, Mr. Sneed," said the manager. "You are supposed to beskating along, when you trip and fall breaking your leg----""Hold on--stop--break my leg! Never!" cried the grouchy actor."Of course you don't really injure yourself!" exclaimed the manager,testily."Oh, why did I ever come to this miserable place!" sighed Mr. Sneed. "Idespise cold weather!"But there was no help for it. Soon he was on the steel runners glidingabout, while Russ filmed him. Mr. Sneed was a good skater, and was notaverse to "showing off.""All ready, now!" called the manager to him. "Get that fall in rightthere. Russ, be ready for him!""Oh!" groaned the actor. "Here I go!"And, as luck would have it, he, at that moment, tripped on a stick, andfell in earnest. It was much better done than if he had simulated it.But something else happened. He fell so heavily, and at a spot wherethere was a treacherous air hole, that, the next instant Mr. Sneed brokethrough the ice, and was floundering in the chilly water.CHAPTER XIITHE CURIOUS DEER"Quick! A rope!""No, boards are better!""Fence rails will do!""Oh, get him out, someone!"These were only some of the cries uttered, following the accident to Mr.Sneed. Meanwhile he was doing his best to keep himself above water bygrasping the edge of the ice.But it crumbled in his fingers, and he was so shocked by the suddenimmersion, and by the cold, and his skates were so heavy on his feet,that he went down again and again. Fortunately the lake was not deep atthat point, and as he went down his feet would touch bottom, and hecould spring up again."Don't go out there!" warned Mr. Pertell, as Paul started for the spot."Why not?" asked the young actor."Because the ice is probably thin all around that place. I don't wanttwo of you in. Hold on, Mr. Sneed!" he cried to the desperate actor."We'll have you out in no time!""Shall I get this?" cried Russ, who had not deserted his camera, even asa gunner will not leave his cannon, nor a captain his ship. More thanonce brave moving picture operators have stood in the face of danger toget rare views."Yes, get every motion of it!" cried the manager."But it isn't in the play!""I don't care! We'll write it in afterward. You get the pictures andwe'll rescue Mr. Sneed. Hi, there, Mr. Bunn, you must help with this.Get some fence rails! We can slide them out on the ice and they willdistribute the weight so that the ice will hold us.""But where will I get fence rails?" asked the actor."Oh, gnaw them out of a tree!" cried Mr. Pertell, who was much disturbedand nervous. "Don't you see that fence?" he cried, pointing to one notfar off. "Get some rails from that. And then get in the picture!""Oh, such a life!" groaned Mr. Bunn."This is to save a life!" the manager reminded him.And while Russ continued to make moving pictures of the unexpectedscene, the others set about the work of rescue. Later this could beinterpolated in the drama to make it appear as though it had all beenarranged in advance."Hurry with those rails!" called Mr. Pertell to Mr. Bunn. "He can't stayin that icy water forever."Some of the men who had been working at removing the snow now came upwith ropes and trace chains. Then, when the rails were spread out on theice, near the air hole, the rescuers were able to get near enough tothrow the ends of several lines to Mr. Sneed. He managed to grasp one,and, a moment later was hauled out on the ice."I--I--I'm c-c-c-cold!" he stammered, as he stood with the icy waterdripping from him."Shouldn't wonder but what you were," agreed Mr. Pertell. "Now the thingfor you to do is to run to the Lodge as fast as you can. Here, Mr. Bunn,you and Paul run alongside him, with a hold on either arm. We'll callthis film 'A Modern Pickwick,' instead of what we planned. In Dickens'story there's a scene somewhat like this. We'll change the whole thingabout."Russ, you go on ahead, and when Paul and Mr. Bunn come along with Mr.Sneed, you get them as they run.""All right," assented the young moving picture operator, as he kept ongrinding away at the crank.Exercise was the best thing to restore the circulation of the actor whohad fallen into the water, and he soon had plenty of it. With Paul onone side, and Mr. Bunn on the other, he was raced back to Elk Lodge, andthere he was supplied plentifully with hot lemonade to ward off a cold.Russ got interior pictures of these scenes as well, and later the filmmade a great success."In view of the accident, and the fact that you are all more or lessupset," said Mr. Pertell, when some of the excitement had calmed down,"we will give up work for the rest of the day. You may do as you pleaseuntil to-morrow.""Then I'm going for a walk," cried Alice."I'm with you," spoke Paul, "only we ought to have snowshoes.""Oh, could we get any?" she cried."I can arrange for some for you," promised Mr. Macksey, "but I haven'tany now.""Good idea!" exclaimed the manager. "An idea for a new film--'TheSnowshoe Rescue!' Here, Russ, make some notes of this for future use,"and he began to dictate to the young operator, who with his employerfrequently thus improvised dramas out of a mere suggestion."If you want to walk," said Mr. Macksey to Alice, "you'd better stickto the road. The men have been out with homemade snowplows breaking atrail. That's what we do around here after a storm. You'd better stickto the road.""We will!" cried Alice. "Will you come, Ruth?""Later perhaps--not now. I want to study a new part I have.""I suppose you're waiting for Russ," whispered Alice."Don't be silly!" flashed Ruth. But she did not go out with her sister.Alice and Paul had a glorious walk in the snow, and saw a beautifulcountry, even though it was hidden under a mantle of white. ForDeerfield was a lovely place."Aren't you cold?" asked Ruth, when her sister returned."Not a bit. It's glorious. What did you do, and how is Mr. Sneed?""He's doing nicely, I believe. As for me, I stayed in. I had somemending to do.""Is that why Russ has threads on his coat sleeve--was it his coat youwere mending?""Oh, Alice--you are hopeless!" protested Ruth, but she blushed vividly.That afternoon, as Mrs. Macksey was overseeing the getting of supper,Alice, who went to the kitchen for something, heard the veteran hunterand his wife in conversation."You say they are strangers about here?" he asked."Yes, three men. I saw them after you had gone to the station to get themoving picture folks. There were three men, and I think they were afterdeer.""After deer, eh? Don't they know that this is a private preserve?""They didn't seem to care. They came to ask their direction. They allhad guns, and I'm sure they were after deer.""And you never saw them before?""No, I never did.""And you have no idea where they came from?""I couldn't tell--no. I heard one of them ask the other if he thought itwas safe.""If what was safe?""He didn't say. Maybe he meant to hunt deer around here.""It won't be safe if I catch them!" declared Mr. Macksey, as he wentout. Alice wondered who the men could be.It was so quiet and peaceful at Elk Lodge that Mr. DeVere soon forgotall about the annoyance caused by the demand of Dan Merley for the fivehundred dollars. At first he had expected some sort of legal summons ina suit, but when none came he breathed easier.Several days passed, and a few snow scenes were filmed to be used later,and worked into dramas. Mr. Sneed suffered a little cold from hisunexpected bath, but that was all.Meanwhile the weather had remained about the same. There was plenty ofsnow, but no more storms. Elk Lodge was voted the finest place in theworld, and even Miss Pennington and Miss Dixon condescended to say thatthey liked it.Then, one day, plans were made for filming a little drama in the snowywoods, and thither many members of the company went to act.Ruth was supposed to be lost in a dense thicket, and Paul was soon onhis way to find her, in the guise of a woodman. He had sighted Ruth,over a clump of bushes, and was making his way to her, when he heard herscream. This was not in the play and he wondered what could havehappened."Quick!" he heard her cry. "He's going to jump at me!"Paul broke into a run, and the next moment saw a deer, with large,branching antlers, spring through the underbrush directly in front ofRuth, while Russ, at the camera, yelled to drive away the curiousanimal.CHAPTER XIIITHE COASTING RACE"Oh, I'm so frightened!" cried Ruth."Don't be alarmed!" Russ called to her, while he continued to grind awayat the camera. "He won't hurt you. This will make a dandy picture! I'mgoing to film the deer.""Oh, but suppose he jabs me with his horns?" wailed Ruth, who was notquite so alarmed now. "They are terribly sharp.""Don't worry!" Russ answered. "This is coming out great. The deer wasjust the one thing needed to make this film a success.""Then I won't spoil it by coming in now!" called Paul, who was keepingout of the focus of the camera by crouching down behind some bushes. Hehad heard what Russ said, and had given up his plan of rushing to rescueRuth. Evidently there was no need.The deer, strange to say, did not seem at all alarmed, and stood gazingat Ruth with great brown eyes. She too, realizing that she was not tobe harmed, acted more naturally now, and with an appreciation of whatwas needed to make the film a proper one.She first "registered" fear, and then delighted surprise, at seeing theanimal.I might explain that in making moving pictures certain directions aregiven to the actors. As they can not depend on speaking words to let theaudiences know what is going on, they must intimate, by appropriategesture, or facial expression, the action of the play. This is called"registering," and when in the directions, or scenario, an actor oractress is told to "register" fear, surprise, anger, love, jealousy--infact any of the emotions--he or she knows what is meant.In this case Ruth was without specific directions save those called outby Russ. And often, in an emergency a good moving picture cameraoperator can save a film from being spoiled by improvising some "stagedirections," if I may call them such."Shall I approach him, Russ?" Ruth asked, as she saw that the deershowed no intentions of fleeing."Yes, if he'll let you. It will make a dandy scene.""Not too close," cautioned Paul, who was still out of sight behind thebushes, waiting until he could properly come into the scene. "He mightaccidentally hit you with a sweep of his horns.""I'll be careful," answered Ruth. "I believe the poor thing is hungry.""If we only had something to feed him!" exclaimed Russ. "That would workin fine.""I have some lumps of sugar," said Ruth, speaking with her head turnedaside. The reason for this was that she did not want the movement of herlips to show on the film, and the camera will catch and fix even thatslight motion.The reason Ruth spoke aside was because the little scene was beingimprovised, and she had no proper lines to speak. And, as I have alreadyexplained, often persons in the audience of a moving picture theatre areable to understand what is said, merely by watching the lips of theperformers on the screen."Sugar! Good!" cried Russ. "See if he'll take it. I don't know what deerlike best, but if they're anything like horses they'll revel in sugar.Go ahead!"Ruth had in her pocket some lumps she had intended giving to the horsesattached to the sleds in which they had come to the woods. She now tookout some of these and held them out to the timid deer.The beautiful creature, made bold, perhaps, by hunger, came a stepnearer."Oh, that's fine!" cried Russ, squinting through the focusing tube toget clear, sharp impressions on the film. "Keep at it, Ruth."The deer came nearer, thrusting forth its velvet nose. It sniffed at thesugar Ruth held, and then put out its lips and tongue and picked up thelumps."Fine!" cried Russ. "Maybe he'd like salt better, for I've read ofsalt-licks that animals visit, but sugar will do on a pinch; won't it,old fellow?"Perhaps it was the loud, laughing voice that Russ used, or it may havebeen because there was no more sugar, but, at any rate, the deer, aftertaking the sweet lumps gave a sudden turn, and rushed off through thebushes, going rather slowly because of the deep snow.Russ caught every motion of the graceful creature, however, and calledout to Ruth to pose with her hand shaded over her eyes, as though shewere looking after the deer. She did this, and that ended the littlescene with the timid woodland creature, who, if he ever saw movingpictures, would doubtless be very much surprised to perceive apresentment of himself on the screen."Come on now, Paul!" called Russ, indicating to the young actor to showhimself so that he would get into the picture.The other players who had come up on hearing Ruth call out were nowready for their parts in the play. They had kept out of sight of thecamera, however, so as not to spoil the picture."Very well done!" declared Mr. Pertell, when Ruth had finished her partin the play. "That deer will make a very effective picture, I think.""It was a dear deer!" punned Alice, and the others laughed.On the way back to Elk Lodge the manager made an announcement thatinterested all in the company, the young people especially."I have a drama," he said, "that calls for a coasting race in one scene.I wonder if we couldn't do that to-morrow.""Oh, riding down hill!" cried Alice, with girlish enthusiasm. "What fun!May I steer a bob?""Alice, you never could!" cried Ruth."Pooh! I've done it lots of times!" her sister answered."Yes, when you were a little girl, perhaps, with two sleds heldtogether," laughed Mr. Pertell. "This will be different. Mr. Mackseytells me he has two big, old-fashioned bobsleds in one of the barns.Now I think we can get up two parties and have a big coasting race. Theplay calls for it, and the young men who steer the bobs are rivals forthe hand of the same girl. She has made a condition that whoever getsfirst to the bottom of the big hill may marry her. So you see the planof the play.""Me for a bob!" cried Paul."I wish I didn't have to film the play--I'd steer one, too!" exclaimedRuss, with a look at Ruth that made her blush."Must I get into this silly coasting play?" asked Mr. Bunn."You surely must," answered Mr. Pertell. "And I want to warn you of onething--you are not to wear a high hat--it would only blow off andembarrass you.""Not wear my high hat? Then I refuse to take part!" cried the tragicactor.But Mr. Pertell paid no attention to him, for he had heard the samething before.The details of the coasting race were discussed on the way to Elk Lodge,and it was arranged that a partial rehearsal should be held next day.That night, as Alice and Ruth were going to bed rather early, on accountof the wearying work of the day, they heard voices out in the hall neartheir room."Listen!" warned Alice, raising her finger, for Ruth was talking."It's Mr. and Mrs. Macksey," said Ruth."I know. But what are they saying? It's something about those strangehunters who were seen about here once before."Mr. Macksey, who had been summoned to the upper hall by his wife to fixa broken window, was speaking in his deep voice."So those fellows were around again; eh?" he asked."Yes, and I don't like it, Jake," Mrs. Macksey replied. "You know whatit means if they kill any of the club deer. It may cost you your placehere. The members of the club may say you were not careful enough.""That's so, wife. I reckon I'd better look after those chaps. If they'retrespassing on Elk Lodge I can have them arrested anyhow."The next day was clear and calm, just right for taking pictures, andafter breakfast the entire company went out on the hill where thebobsled race was to take place.The hill had been prepared in advance by men from Elk Lodge, so that thesleds would attain good speed. The snow had been packed down, and aplace made for Russ to set up his camera."Paul, you will steer one bob," said Mr. Pertell, as he was arrangingthe affair, "and Mr. Sneed will take the other.""What, me steer a bobsled down that hill?" cried the grouchy actor, ashe looked at the steep slope."Of course," said the manager."Something is sure to happen," declared Mr. Sneed."Nonsense!" exclaimed Mr. Pertell. "All you have to do is to keep thewheel steady."The company of players, with a number of men from Elk Lodge, added tofill the bobs, now divided themselves into two parties. Ruth was to goon the sled with Mr. Sneed, and sit directly behind him so as to showwell in the camera. Alice was to ride next to Paul on the other sled.The bobs were long ones, with bells and large steering wheels in front."All ready?" called Mr. Pertell, when the players were seated."All ready!" cried Russ, indicating that the camera was prepared."Go!" ordered the manager, and the men detailed to push the bobs shovedthem ahead. The moving picture coasting race was on.CHAPTER XIVON SNOWSHOES"Here we go!""Hold on tight, everybody!""Let's see if we can't win!"With shouts and laughter the merry coasters thus enlivened the race downhill. In order to make the moving pictures appear as realistic aspossible Mr. Pertell had told the players to forget, for the time being,that they were actors, and to imagine that they were just boys andgirls, out for a real frolic."And I'm sure I feel like one!" cried Alice, as she clung to the sidesof the bob, where she sat behind Paul."That's the way to talk!" he laughed. "Look out for yourself now, we'regoing to bump!"At that moment they came to a "thank-ye-ma'am," as they are called inthe country.This is a ridge, or bump in the road, made to keep the rain water fromrushing down the highway too fast. The ridge turns the water to oneside.As Paul spoke the sled reached this place, rose into the air, and camedown heavily."Gracious!" cried Alice. "I was nearly bounced off!""I warned you!" laughed Paul. "There's another one just below. Watch outfor it."Paul's sled was a little ahead of the one steered by Mr. Sneed, and thelatter was unaware of the treacherous nature of the road. So he did notwarn his fellow coasters. The result was that two of those on the rearfell off, but as they landed in soft snow they were not hurt."All the better!" cried Russ, who was making the pictures. "That willadd to it. Keep going, Mr. Sneed!""If I go much farther I'll fall off!" cried the grouchy actor. "I can'thold on much longer!""You've got to!" ordered Mr. Pertell. "I'm not going to have thispicture spoiled.""Please don't fall off, whatever you do!" cried Ruth, who was back ofMr. Sneed. "That would leave me to do the steering and I don't know thefirst thing about it.""Well, I'll do my best," he said, as graciously as he could. "CertainlyI don't want to make trouble for you, Miss DeVere.""Thank you," she said, and then as she looked ahead and saw another bumpin the road, she cried:"Look out! We're going to hit it."Now Mr. Sneed was still suffering from the effects of the first bump,and not wishing to repeat it he sought to avoid the second by steeringto one side. But in steering a long and heavy bobsled, well-laden withcoasters, there is one thing to be remembered. That is, it must not besteered too suddenly to one side, for it has a propensity to "skid"worse than an automobile.This was what happened in the case of Mr. Sneed. He turned the steeringwheel suddenly, the bobsled slewed to one side, and, in another instant,had upset."Oh, dear!""We'll be killed!"These two expressions came respectively from Miss Pennington and MissDixon. Some of the men cried out and a number of the girls screamed;but, after all, no one was hurt, for the snow was soft and luckily thebob rolled to one side, not hitting anyone.The moment he realized that it was about to capsize Mr. Sneed let go ofthe steering wheel, and gave a jump which carried him out of harm's way,so the only mishap he suffered was a rather severe shaking up, and beingcovered with snow. Considerable of the white stuff got in his mouth."Wuff!" he spluttered. "I--gurr--willnever--burr--steer--another--whew--sled!"By this time he had cleared his mouth of snow, and repeated hisdetermination, without the interruptions and stutterings."Did you get that spill, Russ?" asked Mr. Pertell, who could not keepfrom laughing."Every move of it; yes, sir!""Good. I think we can make use of it, though it wasn't in the scenario.But we'll have to start over again. I want to get a good close finish.""What's that you said?" asked Mr. Sneed, as he dusted the snow from hisclothes, and looked at the overturned bob."I said," repeated the manager, "that we'd have to do the coasting sceneover again, as I wanted to show a close finish of the two sleds at thefoot of the hill, and now we can't, for one is down there, and the otheris up here."This was true enough, since Paul had steered his sled properly, and hadreached the foot of the slope, where he and the others waved to theirless fortunate competitors."Well, you can have the race over again if you like," said Mr. Sneed,with decision, "but I am not going to steer. I knew something wouldhappen if I steered a bob.""Well, you were right--for once," conceded Mr. Pertell, with a smile."And perhaps you are right not to want to steer again. It may not besafe.""I'll do it!" offered Mr. Switzer. "In der old country yet I haf steeredsleds bigger yet as dis von.""All right, you may try," said Mr. Pertell. "Now then, is anyone hurt?""I am not, I'm glad to say," laughed Ruth, who was brushing the snowfrom her garments. "But it was a narrow escape.""Indeed it was!" snapped Miss Dixon. "It was all your fault, too, Mr.Sneed!""My fault, how?""You steered to one side too quickly. Don't you try that, Mr. Switzer.""Indeed und I vill not. You can trust me!""Get ready then," ordered Mr. Pertell. "Come on back!" he called to Pauland his companions at the foot of the hill.As the story in which the coasting race figured would have to bechanged to make the accident fit in, Mr. Pertell had Russ get all theincidental scenes he could, showing the overturned bob being righted,the coasters getting ready for the new race, and the other bob beingpulled up hill.Once more the rival coasters prepared to start off, with Mr. Switzerreplacing Mr. Sneed. This time there was no upset, and the two sledswent down close together.Then something new developed. Mr. Switzer spoke truly when he said hehad been used to steering bobs in Germany. He knew just how to do it toget the best results, and take advantage of every favorable spot on thehill.Paul, too, seeing that it was to be a real race, as well as one for thebenefit of the moving picture audiences, exerted himself to get the bestout of his sled. There is little a steersman on a bob can do except totake advantage of the easiest course. And this Paul did.On and on went the big bobs, nearing the foot of the hill."This is great!" cried Mr. Pertell."This will be some picture!" declared Russ, with enthusiasm. "Come on,Paul, he's going to win!""Not if I know it!" avowed the young actor."Oh, don't let them get ahead of us!" cried Alice in Paul's ear."I'll do my best," he said, with a grim tightening of his lips.But it was not to be. Either a little more skillful steering on the partof Mr. Switzer, or a more favorable course enabled his sled to shootahead, just at the finish, and he won the race.And then a curious thing happened. The sled kept on going, and slid intoa little clump of bushes, from which, a moment later, a man with a gunsprang.This man seemed as surprised at being thus driven from his shelter aswere the coasters at seeing him."Ha! Vot does dis mean?" demanded Mr. Switzer. "Vos you vaiting for usmit dot gun?"Really the man did look a little menacing as he stood there with poisedweapon, looking at the coasters."I beg your pardon," he managed to stammer, at length. "I did not seeyou coming.""I guess it's our part to beg your pardon," said Mr. Sneed, who, thoughhe did not steer the bob, had been obliged to ride on it. "We did notmean to run into you.""No harm done; none at all," the man said. "I was hiding here, waitingfor a chance to shoot at a fox that has a particularly fine pelt, but Iguess I may as well give up. I heard the shouts of you folks, but I hadno idea you would coast away down here.""I didn't haf no idea like dot myself," confessed Mr. Switzer. "But ifdere iss no hart feelings ve vill let comeons be bygones.""That suits me," laughed the stranger, as he turned aside.And, as he went away Ruth had a queer feeling that she had seen himbefore and under odd circumstances.The coasting incident was over, the race had been successfully filmed,and the coasters were turning back up the hill, while Russ wasdemounting his camera, for there would be no more scenes taken atpresent."Did you notice that man, Alice?" asked Ruth, as she went up the hillbeside her sister."You mean the hunter who looked as though he wanted to shoot some ofus?""Oh, what a way to talk! But that's the one I had reference to. Did younotice him particularly?""Not very. Why?""Do you think you ever saw him before?"Ruth put the question in such a peculiar way that Alice looked at hersharply."You don't mean he was one of the men who tried to get Russ's patent; doyou?""No. I can't, for the life of me, though, think where I have seen thatman before, but I'm sure I have. I thought you might remember."Alice tried to recall the face, but could not."I don't believe I ever saw him before," she said, shaking her head. "Hemight be one of the many actors we have met on our travels, or in goingaround with daddy.""No, I'm sure he never was an actor," spoke Ruth. "Never mind, perhapsit will come to me later."And all the remainder of the day she tried in vain to recall where shehad seen that face before.Mr. Macksey seemed a trifle disturbed when told of the man being on thehill with a gun."One of those pesky hunters!" he exclaimed. "I've got notices posted allover the property of Elk Lodge, but they don't seem to do any good. Iguess I'll have to get after those fellows and give 'em a piece of mymind. I'd like to find out where they are stopping."The next few days were busy ones for the picture actors, and a numberof dramas were filmed. In one, two snow forts were built, and thecompany indulged in a snowball battle before the camera."And now for something new," said Mr. Pertell one day, as he called thecompany together in the big living room of the lodge, and pointed tosomething piled in one corner. "You'll have to have a few days'practice, I think, so I give you fair notice.""More coasting?" asked Mr. Sneed, suspiciously."No--snowshoes, this time," replied the manager. "I am going to have youall travel on them in one scene, and as they are rather awkward you hadbetter take a few lessons.""Lessons on snowshoes!" cried Ruth. "Who can give them to us?""I have a teacher," said the manager. "Russ, tell Billy Jack to comein," and there entered from the porch a tall Indian, dressed in moderngarb.Miss Pennington screamed, as did Miss Dixon, but the Indian smiled,showing some very fine and white teeth, and said in a gentle voice:"Don't be alarmed, ladies, I have no scalping knife with me, and Iassure you that you will soon be able to get about on snowshoes."CHAPTER XVA TIMELY SHOTSurprise, for the moment, made every member of the moving picturecompany silent. That an Indian should speak so correctly was a matter ofamazement. Mr. Pertell smiled quizzically as he remarked."Billy Jack is one of the last of his tribe. He is a full-bloodedIndian, but he has been to Carlisle, which may account for some things.""I should say it would," murmured Paul Ardite. "I'm glad I didn't give awar whoop!""I learned to use snowshoes when I was a boy," went on the Indian, who,though roughly dressed was cultured. "I have kept it up ever since," hewent on. "I have charge of a gang of men getting out some lumber, notfar from here, and when Mr. Macksey told me there was a company ofmoving picture actors and actresses at Elk Lodge I spoke of thesnowshoes.""And when Mr. Macksey told me of it," put in the manager, "I saw atonce that we could use a scene with some of you folks on the shoes. So Iarranged with Billy Jack.""Is that your real name?" asked Alice, who had taken a sudden liking tothe rugged son of the forest."That's one of my real names, strange as it sounds," he answered. "Idon't much fancy it; but what am I to do?""I like it!" the girl announced, promptly. "It's better than beingRunning Bear or something like that.""I had one of those names--in fact, I have it yet," he said, "but Inever use it. Flaming Arrow is my real Indian name.""Flaming Arrow! How romantic!" exclaimed Miss Dixon. "How did you cometo get that?""Oh, when I was a boy an Indian from a neighboring tribe shot an arrow,with some burning tow on it, over into our camp, just in a spirit ofmischief, for we were friendly. I snatched the arrow out of a pile ofdry bark that it might have set on fire, and so I got my name. I am aWestern Indian," Billy Jack explained, "but of late I have made my homein New England. Now, if you like, I will show you how to usesnowshoes."A number of the queer "tennis racquets," as Alice called them, had beenobtained through the good offices of Billy Jack, he having arranged forthem in the lumber camp. Snowshoes, as you all know, consist of a thinstrip of wood, bent around in a curve, and shaped not unlike a lawntennis racquet, except that the handle or heel part is shorter. Theshoes are laced with thongs, and the feet are placed in the centre ofthe criss-crossed thongs, and held there by other thongs or straps.The idea of snowshoes is to enable travelers to make their way over deepdrifts without sinking, the shoes distributing the weight over a largerarea. They are not easy to use, and the novice is very apt to trip byputting one shoe down on top of the other, and then trying to step out.Billy Jack, or Flaming Arrow, as Ruth and Alice voted to call him, firstshowed the members of the company how to fasten the snowshoes on theirfeet, allowing for the play of the heel. He put a pair on himself,first, and stepped out over a stretch of unbroken snow. Instead ofsinking down, as he would have done under ordinary circumstances, heslipped over the surface as lightly as a feather."Now, you try," he told Mr. Sneed, who was near him."Who, me? Oh, I can't walk on these things," protested the grouchyactor."Try!" ordered Mr. Pertell. "I have a very important part for you in thenew play.""All right, if you say so, I suppose I must. But I know something willhappen," he sighed.It did, and within a few seconds after Mr. Sneed started out. He tookthree steps, and then, forgetting that the snowshoes were rather large,he tried to walk as though he did not have them on. The result was hetripped, and came down head first in a deep drift, and there heremained, buried to his shoulders while his feet were up in the air,wildly kicking about.He was probably saying things, but they could not be heard, for his headwas under the snow."Somebody help him out!" cried Mr. Pertell, trying to keep from laughingtoo hard.In fact everyone was so amused that, for the moment, no one rendered anyaid to Mr. Sneed. But Flaming Arrow finally went over to him, andsucceeded in righting him."Take--take 'em off!" spluttered the actor, when he could speak. "I amthrough with snowshoes."He tried to unlace the thongs that bound his feet, but could not manageit."Better try once more," advised Mr. Pertell. "I really need you in thescene, Mr. Sneed, and you will soon learn to get along on thesnowshoes.""I never will!" cried the grouch. "Take 'em off, I say!"But no one would, and finally, after Flaming Arrow had given a few moredemonstrations, Mr. Sneed consented to try again. This time he did alittle better, but every once in a while he would trip. He did not againdive into a snow bank, however.Other members of the company had haps and mishaps, and Mr. Bunn stumbledabout so that he lost his new tall hat in a drift, and he refused to goon with the act until the silk tile was dug out.But finally after two day's practice, the Indian declared that thecompany was sufficiently expert to allow the taking of pictures, andRuss began to work the camera."Could we come over to your lumber camp some day?" asked Alice ofFlaming Arrow, when the little drama was over."I would be pleased to have you," he replied, with a smile. "There are arough lot of men there, but they are always glad to seevisitors--especially ladies. It is rather dull and lonesome in thebackwoods. This has been quite a little vacation for me.""Then we'll come and see you; won't we Ruth?""I don't know, dear. We'll have to ask daddy," responded Ruth, ratherdoubtfully."Oh, he'll say yes!" Alice cried. "He likes us to see new sights, andI've never been in a lumber camp yet.""Bring your father along," invited Flaming Arrow. "I think he would beinterested."Alice promised and then the Indian took his leave. He promised to comeanother day and bring a pair of skis, those long barrel-stave-likeaffairs, on which experts can slide down a steep hill, and make the mostastonishing jumps.It was a few days after the snowshoe film had been made that Mr. Pertelldecided on getting some scenes farther back in the woods than he had yetgone for views. Ruth and Alice, with Paul and Mr. Switzer, were aloneneeded for those particular acts, and as there was a good road part wayit was decided to go as near as possible in a sled, and use snowshoesfor the rest of the trip, since there had been quite a fall.Mr. Pertell went along to see that the proper posing and acting wascarried out, and when he reached the place he had Ruth and Alice go onalone into the woods, Russ filming them as they advanced. Later Paul andMr. Switzer were to come into the picture."That's about right," said the manager when Ruth and Alice were in adense thicket. They were attired as the daughters of lumbermen, and thisparticular scene was one in a drama to be called "The Fall of a Tree.""Begin now," ordered Mr. Pertell, and Ruth and Alice started the"business," or acting, called for. Russ was grinding away at the crankof the camera.Everything went off well and that part of the play came to an end. Forthe next act another background was to be selected, and Russ went to itwith his camera, leaving Ruth and Alice standing together in thethicket."We have to wait a few minutes, while Paul and Mr. Switzer go throughtheir parts," said Ruth. "Then we'll go over.""All right," Alice said. "Oh, but isn't it perfectly heavenly out here?I just love it at Elk Lodge!""So do I, dear! Hark! What was that?"A sound came from the bushes behind them--a growling, menacing sound,and as they heard it the girls drew together in fright."It--it's some animal!" gasped Ruth. "Oh, Alice!""Look. There it is! It's going to spring at us!" cried the younger girland with trembling finger she pointed to a crouching beast not far away.Its eyes gleamed balefully, and with sharp switchings of its tail itglared at the girls, ready to spring.The moving picture girls were faint with fear, and too frightened toshout for help. But suddenly a voice behind them called:"Don't be afraid! Stand still. I'm going to shoot!"The next moment a shot rang out. The beast quivered and then whirled inits death struggle, while strong arms reached through the floatingpowder smoke, and pulled Ruth and Alice back, and out of danger.CHAPTER XVIIN THE CAVEThe animal, in its death struggle, bit and clawed at the snow and bushesabout it, and actually came almost to the feet of the shrinking girls;but they were safe from harm, for the shot had come just in time."I guess I'll have to give him another bullet," said the man who hadended the career of the beast. "I'll put it out of its misery," and hedid so. The shot, so close at hand, caused Ruth and Alice to jumpnervously, and then, for the first time, as the beast stretched out, andlay still, they took a look at their rescuer."Why it's Flaming Arrow!" exclaimed Alice, in delight."At your service!" he laughed. "I am glad I happened to be near here.""So are we!" exclaimed Ruth, with a nervous laugh. "What sort of a beastis that--a young bear?""No, it's a wildcat, and a mean sort of animal, once it attacks you.This one must have felt that it was cornered, for they are not usuallyso bold. It's a big one, though, and the pelt will make a fine rug foryour room. May I have the pleasure of sending it to you?" he asked."Oh, can you make it into a rug?" asked Alice."Yes, I know something of curing, and I have the materials at my shackin the lumber camp. I'll make a rug for you, only I'm afraid it isn'tbig enough for two," he said, ruefully."Oh, Alice may have it!" exclaimed Ruth, generously."Then I'll get another for you," offered Flaming Arrow. "They usuallytravel in pairs, and the mate of this one is sure to be aroundsomewhere. I'll get him."Later the Indian did get another wildcat, whether or not the mate of thefirst one he shot could not be determined; but, at any rate, Ruth andAlice each received a handsome fur rug for their room.The sound of the shots brought up the others of the moving picturecompany, and Paul turned rather pale when he realized the danger Alicehad been in."Why didn't you call for help?" he asked."We didn't need to. Flaming Arrow was right on the spot when he wasneeded," replied Alice."I happened to be out on a little hunting trip," the Indian explained,"and I saw the wildcat sneak in this thicket. I did not see the girls,though, until just as it was about to jump on them. Then I fired.""And just in time, too," declared Ruth. "Oh, if that beast had everjumped on me I don't know what I'd have done!""They're pretty bad scratchers," said Flaming Arrow. "I was clawed byone once, and I carry the scars yet.""Will you be able to go on with the play?" asked Mr. Pertell of thegirls, when he had heard the story."Oh, yes," returned Alice. "My nerves are all right now. We are gettingused to such experiences," she laughed."I am all right too," Ruth agreed. "But it was a trying moment."Flaming Arrow stood to one side and looked on interestedly while theremainder of the drama was being filmed, and then he showed the playersthe road to his lumber camp. He invited them to come over to it, but asthe hour was late and as Mr. Pertell wanted to get a few more scenes ina different locality, it was decided to defer the visit to some othertime.Flaming Arrow said good-bye, and went off with the dead wild cat slungover his shoulder."Isn't he just fine!" exclaimed Alice, as she watched him stalking overthe drifts on his snowshoes."I'm getting jealous!" laughed Paul, and there was more of meaning inhis remark than his outward manner indicated."Well, I do like him!" Alice went on. "He is so big and strong andmanly. And he can shoot straight!""Hereafter I'll bring along a gun every time we come out," vowed Paul."And I'm going to take shooting lessons.""Yah! Dot vould be a goot t'ing," decided Mr. Switzer. "I gets me too agun!""Gracious! The game around here had better seek new quarters!" laughedAlice. "Next we'll be having Mr. Bunn and Mr. Sneed taking up thecalling of Nimrod."Mr. DeVere was rather disturbed when he heard the story of the wildcat,and once more he spoke seriously of taking his daughters out of movingpicture work."I really am afraid something will happen to you," he said. "I think youhad better resign. I can earn enough for all of us now, for Mr. Pertellhas given me another advance in salary.""Oh, Daddy! We simply couldn't give it up!" cried Alice. "Could we,Ruth?""I wouldn't like to give it up," responded Ruth, quietly. She was alwaysless demonstrative than her sister. "And really, Daddy, we don't runinto danger.""I know, my dear, but danger seems to have formed a habit, of late, ofseeking you out," said the actor. "However, we will wait a few days. Isuppose it would be too bad to disappoint Mr. Pertell now."The next day, owing to a slight indisposition on the part of MissPennington, a drama that included her as one of the cast had to bepostponed, and as no other was ready to be filmed, the players had alittle holiday."Who wants to come for a trip to the ice cave?" asked Russ, when hefound that he would not have to use his camera."What's the ice cave?" asked Ruth."Why, it's a cave made out of ice. There's one about two miles fromhere, and Mr. Pertell is thinking of having some scenes made there. I'mto go out and size up the situation. Want to come?""It sounds interesting," observed Ruth. "I believe I would like to go.Shall we, Alice?""Indeed, yes.""Count me in!" cried Paul.So a little later the four young people set off for the ice cave. Thiswas a natural curiosity not far from Elk Lodge. Every year, at awaterfall in a local stream, the ice piled up in fantastic shapes. Theflow of the water, and the effect of the wind, made a large hollow orcave at the cascade large enough to hold several persons. Mr. Pertellhad heard of it and had laid one scene of a drama there.There was a fairly good road almost to the ice cave, and then came atrip across an unbroken expanse of snow, the snowshoes being used, theyhaving been carried strapped to the backs of the four."Oh, how beautiful!""See how the sun sparkles on the ice.""And what big icicles!""Oh, if we could only keep that until Summer!"Thus the young people cried as they saw the beautiful ice cave. It wasindeed a pretty sight. Nature, unaided, had done more than man couldever hope to achieve."Let's go inside," suggested Russ."Will it be safe?" asked Ruth."Oh, surely. Why, we have to go in it when we make the moving picture,so we might as well get used to it. They say this ice lasts nearly allsummer. It's down in a deep hollow, you see. Come on in.""Go ahead! I'm game!" Paul said, grimly.The girls hesitated, but only for a moment. Then they followed the youngmen into the cavern.The entrance was rather small, and they had to stoop to get through it,but once inside the cave widened out until there was room for perhaps adozen persons."What a lovely place for a dance!" cried Alice, as she slid about. "It'sso slippery that you'd need those new slippers with rubber set in thesole. Come, on, try a hesitation waltz," she cried gaily to Ruth.Paul whistled one of the latest popular airs, and Ruth and Alice slidabout."Come on!" cried Paul to Russ. "I'm getting the craze, too."The two young men danced together a moment, and then came aninterruption that caused them all to look at one another.There was a grinding, crashing sound outside, and the next moment theentrance to the cave was darkened.CHAPTER XVIITHE RESCUE"What happened?""There must have been an ice slide!"It was Alice who asked the question, and Paul who answered it. Standingin the darkened ice cave, through the walls of which, however, somelight filtered, the four looked anxiously at one another."It was the dancing that did it," declared Ruth, in a low voice. "Itloosened the ice and it slid down.""Perhaps not," said Paul, not wanting Alice blamed, for she had proposedthe light-footed stepping about on the slippery floor of the cavern. "Itmight have slid down itself.""Well, let's see what the situation is," proposed Russ. "We can't stayin here too long, for it's freezing cold.""Yes, let's see if we can get out," added Paul."See if we _can_ get out!" repeated Ruth. "Why, is there any danger thatwe can not?""Every danger in the world, I should say," spoke Russ, and there was aworried note in his voice. "I don't want to alarm you," he went on, "butthe fact is that we are shut up in this ice cave.""Oh, don't say that!" cried Ruth."Why shouldn't he--if it's true?" asked Alice. "Let's face thesituation, whatever it is. Russ, will you see just how bad it is?"Without speaking, the young moving picture operator went to the holethrough which they had stooped to enter the cavern. In a moment he cameback."It's closed tighter than a drum," he announced. "A lot of ice slid downfrom above and closed the entrance to the cave as if a door had beenshoved across it. We can't get out!"For a moment no one spoke, and then Paul asked, quietly:"What are we going to do?""Have you a knife?" asked Russ."A knife? Yes, but what good is that?""We've got to cut our way out--that's all."Ruth and Alice looked at each other. They began to understand what itmeant."Someone from Elk Lodge may come for us--if we don't get back,"murmured the younger girl, in what was almost a whisper."Yes, they may, but it's dangerous to wait," said Paul. "It is cold inhere, and it isn't getting any warmer. It's like being locked in arefrigerator. We've got to keep in motion or we'll freeze.""Then let's tackle that block of ice at the entrance," suggested Russ."Get out your knife and we'll see if we can't cut a hole large enough tocrawl through."If you have tried to cut with a pocket knife even the small piece of icewhich you get in your refrigerator, you can appreciate the task thatconfronted the two young men. A solid block of ice had slid down fromsome higher point, and had blocked the opening to the odd cavern. Butthe two were not daunted. They realized the necessity of getting out,and that within a short time. Though they were all warmly dressed, theair of the cavern was chilly, to say the least."Keep moving, girls!" called Russ to Ruth and Alice, as he and Paulchipped away at the ice. "This exercise will keep us warm; but you needto do something to keep your blood in circulation. Here, take my coat!"he called, as he arose from his knees, and tossed the garment to Ruth."I shall do nothing of the sort!" she answered, promptly. "You need ityourself.""No, I don't," he replied, earnestly. "It only bothers me when I try tocut the ice. Please take it.""But I can't get it on over my cloak.""Yes, you can. Put it around your shoulders. I'll show you how." And hedid it quickly, wrapping it warmly around her."Here, Alice, you take mine!" cried Paul, as he saw what his companionhad done. "You need it more than I do, and I can't get at that ice witha big coat like this on."In spite of her protests he put it about her, and the added warmth ofthe garments was comforting to the girls.The boys, really, were better off without them, for they had muchvigorous work before them, and in the narrow quarters the heavy coatsonly hampered them.For it was an exceedingly narrow space in which they had to work. Thefall of the mass of ice had crushed part of the opening into the cave,so that Russ and Paul had to crouch down and stoop in a mostuncomfortable position in order to reach the block that had closed thedoorway.With their knives they hacked away at the frozen mass, sending thechips flying. Much of it went in their faces and soon their cheeks wereglowing from the icy spray of splinters. Then, too, they had to stopevery now and then to clear away the accumulated ice crystals that fellbefore the attack of their knives."Keep moving, girls," Paul urged Ruth and Alice. "Keep circling aroundor you'll surely freeze.""Let's dance," suggested Alice."Oh, how can you think of such a thing!" cried Ruth, "when it was thatwhich caused all the trouble.""I'm not going to believe that!" declared Alice, firmly. "And it isn'tsuch a terrible thing to think of, at all. It will keep us warm, andkeep up our spirits."And then she broke into a little one-step dance, whistling her ownaccompaniment. Surely it was a strange proceeding, and yet it camenatural to Alice. The young men, too, took heart at her manner ofaccepting the situation, and chopped away harder than ever at the icebarrier."Think we'll make it?" asked Paul of Russ, in a low voice, when they hadbeen working for some time."We've got to make it," answered the other. "We've just got to get thegirls out.""Of course," was the brief reply, as if that was all there was to it.And yet, in their hearts, Russ and Paul felt a nameless fear. Ice, whichmelts so easily under the warm and gentle influence of the sun, isexceedingly hard when it is maintained at a low temperature, and trulyit was sufficiently cold in the cave.Now and then the boys stopped to clear away the accumulation of icesplinters, and to note how they were progressing. Yet they could hardlytell, for they did not know how thick was the chunk of ice that coveredthe cave opening. The edges of the opening itself were several feet inthickness, and if this hole was completely filled it would mean manyhours of work with the pitifully inadequate tools at their disposal."How are we coming on?" asked Paul.Russ looked back at the girls who, in one corner of the cave, werepacing up and down to drive away the deadly cold."Not very well," he returned, in a low voice. "Don't talk--let's work."He did not like to think of what might happen.Desperately they labored, eating their way into the heart of the ice.The splinters fell on their warm bodies, for they were perspiring now,and there the frosty particles melted, wetting their garments through.Suddenly Paul uttered a cry as he dug his knife savagely into thebarrier."What's the matter--cut yourself?" asked Russ."No," was the low-voiced reply. "But I've broken the big blade of myknife. Now I'll have to use the smaller one."It was a serious thing, for it meant a big decrease in the amount of icePaul could chop. But opening the small blade of the knife he keptdoggedly at the task.It was growing darker now. They could observe this through thetranslucent walls of the cave."Do you think they will come for us?" asked Ruth, in a low tone."Oh, yes, of course. If we don't get back by dark," responded Russ, ascheerfully as he could. "But we'll be out before then. Come on, Paul.Dig away!"But it was very evident that they would not be out before dark. The iceblock was thicker than Russ and Paul imagined."Please rest!" begged Alice, after a period of hard work by the twoyoung men. "Please take a rest!""Can't afford a vacation," returned Russ, grimly.But when he did halt for a moment, to get his breath, there came fromoutside the cave a sound that sent all their hearts to beating joyfullyfor it was the voice of some calling:"Where are you? Where are you? Alice! Ruth!""Oh, it's daddy!" cried the girls together, and then Russ took up therefrain, shouting:"We're in the cave! Get axes and chop us out! We've only got ourknives!""We'll be with you in a moment!" said another voice, which theyrecognized as that of Mr. Macksey. "We'll have to go for a couple ofaxes!"And then, as the hunter started back to Elk Lodge, Mr. DeVere, whoremained outside the ice cave, explained through a crevice in the icewall that made conversation possible how, becoming uneasy at the failureof his daughters to return, he had set out, in company with Mr. Mackseyto look for them.In their turn Ruth and Alice, with occasional words from Russ and Paul,told how they had become imprisoned."Are you hurt?" asked Mr. DeVere, anxiously."Not a bit of it, but we're awfully cold, Daddy," replied Alice."We must give the boys back their coats," said Ruth to her sister in alow tone. "They are not chopping now, and they'll freeze."Russ and Paul did not want to accept their garments, but the girls wereinsistent, and made them don the heavy coats. Then the four walkedrapidly around the cave to keep their blood in circulation."I wish Mr. Pertell would come and bring the camera," said Russ. "Hecould get a good moving picture of the rescue.""Maybe he will," suggested Paul.There was a little silence, and then Mr. DeVere called, from outside thecave;"Here they come! Now you will soon be rescued! There's help enough tochop away the whole cave!"CHAPTER XVIIISNOWBOUNDAlice and Ruth fairly flew together, holding their arms tightly aboutone another in the excess of their emotion, as they heard this joyfulnews shouted to them by their father.Ruth cried on her sister's shoulder. She could not help it. PerhapsAlice felt like crying, too, so great was the relief; but she was of adifferent temperament. She laughed hysterically."Is Mr. Pertell there?" called Russ, getting down close to the hole heand Paul had made in the ice barrier to enable his voice to carrybetter. "Is he there, Mr. DeVere?""Yes, he's there, and I guess the whole company.""Has he the camera?""That's what he has, Russ.""Good! Tell him to get a moving picture of the rescue. We can fix up astory to go with it.""I will, Russ!" exclaimed the actor.Then, as those within the ice cave waited, they faintly heard othervoices outside, and a little later the sound of axes vigorously appliedtold that the ice which had imprisoned them was being chopped away.Fast and furiously the rescuers worked. The ice flew about in asparkling spray as the keen weapons bit deep into it, and the hole grewlarger and larger.Meanwhile Mr. Pertell was operating the moving picture camera, gettingview after view of the rescue. There were enough helpers so that his aidwas not needed in chopping the ice."There she goes!" cried Mr. Macksey, as his axe went through an openingand into the cave. "I've made the hole!" and he capered about like aboy, so delighted was he that he had been the first to bring aid to theimprisoned ones."Oh, now we can get out!" cried Ruth, as she saw the head of the axecome through."As if there had ever been any doubt of it," laughed Alice. She couldlaugh now, but even with all her gay spirits, there had been a time, notmany minutes back, when it was quite a different story.The hole once made, was soon enlarged, and then, when it was ofsufficient size to enable a person to crawl through, Russ shouted tothe rescuers;"That'll do! Don't chop any more! We can wriggle out.""Surely, yes," agreed Ruth, as the young moving picture operator lookedto her for confirmation. "I'm not a bit fussy," she added. "I've doneharder things than crawl on my hands and knees out of an ice cave.""Don't chop any more!" called Paul, for Russ was leading Ruth to theopening."Come ahead!" called Mr. DeVere, and a moment later he was holding hisdaughter in his arms. Alice soon followed, and she too was claspedtightly."Hurray!" cried Mr. Switzer, as Russ and Paul emerged from their strangeprison. "Dis is der best sight vot I have yet had in more as a month.Half a pretzel!" he exclaimed, holding out one of the queer, twistedthings. He was never without them since the sled breakdown. He said theywere his mascots.There was a scene of rejoicing, and even the gloomy Mr. Sneedcondescended to smile, and looked almost happy."There, I guess we can use this film in some sort of a play, if I haveto write it myself!" exclaimed Mr. Pertell, as he finished grindingaway at the camera crank. "I can call it 'Caught in The Ice,' orsomething like that," he went on, "We can make some preliminary scenes,and some others to follow, and get quite a play out of it.""I'm glad you thought to bring the camera," said Russ. Even in thestress of what had happened to him and his companions, his instinct as amoving picture operator was ever foremost."We had better get them to Elk Lodge, and feed them upon somethingwarm," suggested Mr. Macksey. "I told the wife to have a good mealready, for I knew they would be chilled through.""It _was_ pretty cold in there," confessed Alice."Oh, don't let's talk about it!" cried Ruth. "It was too terrible."An examination of the exterior of the ice cave showed that just what theyoung men surmised had taken place. A large chunk of ice had slid downfrom above, and had jammed against the opening to the cavern.Back at Elk Lodge, with warm garments on, the four who had passedthrough such a trying experience soon forgot their troubles. They had totell all over again just what had happened, and the young men wereconsidered quite the heroes of the hour.The next day none of the four was any the worse for the experience, savein the matter of a nightmare memory, and that would gradually pass away.Feeling that the two girls were not capable of doing any hard work inposing for the camera that day, Mr. Pertell announced another vacation,save that Russ was engaged in making some scenes of snow and iceeffects.Late in the afternoon, when the shadows were lengthening, and the longwinter evening was about to close in, Alice, who was out on the sideporch, saw Mr. Macksey coming in from the barn. The hunter had ananxious look on his face, and as he walked toward the house he castlooks up at the sky now and then. And Alice heard him murmur:"I don't like this! I don't for a cent, by hickory!""What's the matter now?" she asked, merrily. "Have you seen some ofthose strange men about again, hunting on your preserves?""No, Miss Alice. Not this time," he replied, slowly."What is it then?""Well, to tell you the truth, I don't like the looks of the weather.""Do you think we're going to have another blizzard?" and there was anote of alarm in her voice."I'm thinking that's what's coming," he made answer. "I never knew theweather to act just this way before except once, and then we had theworst storm I ever remember. That was when I was a boy, and more snowfell in that one storm than in any three winters put together.""Gracious! I hope that won't happen now!" cried the girl."So do I," went on the hunter. "And I'm going to take all precautions.I'll get the men, and we'll pile the fodder in the barn so if we can'tget out to feed the stock they won't starve for a week, anyhow.""Does it ever happen that you can't get out to the barns?" Alice wantedto know."Indeed it does, young lady. When there is a heavy fall of snow, and thewind blows hard, it drifts almost as high as the house. Yes, I thinkwe're in for a storm, and I'm going to get ready for it. Best to be onthe safe side."A little later he and a number of his hired men, as well as some of thepicture players, were engaged in looking after the horses and cows.Great piles of hay and grain were moved from the barns where the fodderwas kept in reserve, to the buildings where the stock were stabled."How about our rations?" asked Mr. Bunn, who was not of much help inwork of this sort. "Have we enough to last through a storm?""Well, we've got some," Mr. Macksey admitted. "But I own I would like alittle better stock in the Lodge. I counted on some supplies coming into-day; but they haven't arrived. We'll have to do the best we can.""What is all the excitement about, Alice?" asked Ruth as she came out tojoin her sister on the porch."A big storm coming, Mr. Macksey says. They're getting ready for it. Iwant to see it!""Oh, Alice. Suppose it should be a blizzard!""Well, I want to see it anyhow. If it's going to come I can't stop it;but I can enjoy it," Alice remarked in her characteristicallyphilosophical way.There was a curious humming in the air, as though someone, a great wayoff, were moaning in pain. It did not seem to be the wind, and yet itwas like the sigh of a breeze. But the gaunt-limbed trees did not bowbefore this strange blast.The air, too, had a bite and tingle to it as though it were filled withinvisible particles of ice. The clouds were lowering, and as theafternoon wore away there sprang up in the west a black band of vapor,almost like ink.Alice induced Ruth to pay a visit to the barn, to watch the preparationsfor providing for the stock. Even the animals seemed uneasy, as thoughthey sensed some impending disaster. The horses, always nervous, weredoubly so, and moved restlessly about, with pricked-up ears, andstartled neighs. The cows, too, lowed plaintively."Well, we've done all we can," announced Mr. Macksey, as night came on."Now all we can do is to wait. There's plenty of fuel in the cellar, andwe'll not freeze, at any rate."There was a sense of gloom over all, as they sat in the big living roomof Elk Lodge that night, and looked at the blazing logs. Everyonelistened apprehensively, as though to hear the first message of theimpending storm.The sighing of the wind, if wind it was that made that curious sound,was more pronounced now, and as the blast came down the chimney itscattered ashes and embers about, and at times rose to an uncanny wail."Oh, but that gives me the shivers!" exclaimed Miss Pennington, tossingaside the novel in which she had tried to become interested. "This ispositively awful! I wish I were back in New York.""So do I!" added her chum."Oh, but a good snow storm is glorious!" cried Alice. "I am just wild tosee it.""That's right," exclaimed her father, with a smile. "Take a cheerfulview of it, anyhow."Some one proposed a guessing game, and with that under way the spiritsof all revived somewhat. Then came another simple game, and the timepassed pleasantly.Mr. Macksey, coming back from a trip to the side door, startled them allby announcing:"She's here!""Who?" asked his wife, looking up from her sewing."The storm! It's snowing like cotton batting!"Alice rushed to the window. She shaded her eyes with her hands at theside of her head and peered out. It seemed as though the lamplightsshone on a solid wall of white, so thickly was the snow falling.The wind had now risen to a blast of hurricane-like velocity and itfairly shook Elk Lodge, low and substantial as the house was.By ones and twos the picture players went to their rooms, and soonsilence and darkness settled down over the Lodge. That is, silencewithin the house, but outside there was the riot of the storm.Two or three times during the night Alice awakened and, going to thewindow, looked out. She could make out a dim whiteness, but that wasall. Around the window there was a little drift of snow on the sill,where it had been blown through a crack.And in the morning they were snowbound. So heavy was the fall of snow,and so high had it drifted, that some of the lower windows werecompletely covered, from the ground up. And before each door was such adrift that it would be necessary to tunnel if they were to get out."The worst storm I ever see!" declared Mr. Macksey, as he closed thedoor against the blast. "It would be death to go out in it now. We aresnowbound, by hickory!"CHAPTER XIXON SHORT RATIONSApprehensive as all had been of the coming of the big storm, and fullywarned by the hunter, none of the picture players was quite prepared forwhat they saw--or, rather, for what they could not see. For not a windowon the lower floor of the Lodge but was blocked by a bank of snow, sothat only the tops of the upper panes were clear of it. And throughthose bits of glass all that could be seen was a whirli